
	People v Cameron
	2014 NY Slip Op 01119 [114 AD3d 522]
	February 18, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	The People of the State of New York,
Respondent,
v
Donald Cameron, Appellant.


—[*1]



Richard M. Greenberg, Office of the Appellate Defender, New York (Lauren
Stephens-Davidowitz of counsel), for appellant.

Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., District Attorney, New York (Eleanor J. Ostrow of counsel), for
respondent.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Renee A. White, J.), entered on or about
June 12, 2012, which adjudicated defendant a level two sexually violent offender under
the Sex Offender Registration Act (Correction Law art 6-C), unanimously reversed, on
the law, without costs, and the matter remanded for further proceedings.

While we recognize a court's authority to control its calendar, we conclude that under
the unique circumstances here, the court abused its discretion by denying defendant's
second request for a brief adjournment in order to obtain documentation from the
Department of Corrections and Community Supervision that was relevant to the
determination of his risk level, especially with regard to the issue of downward
departure. Correction Law § 168-n (3) provides that the court "shall adjourn the
hearing as necessary to permit [a] sex offender or the district attorney to obtain [such]
materials."

The record shows that counsel moved expeditiously to obtain the relevant
documentation from DOCCS and was unable to do so due to no fault of her own, that she
received misinformation from DOCCS that significantly delayed her ability to obtain the
relevant documentation, and that she sought only a brief adjournment that would have
still permitted a [*2]timely determination of defendant's
risk level. Under these circumstances, a brief adjournment should have been granted.

We have considered and rejected defendant's request for additional relief.
Concur—Sweeny, J.P., Renwick, Moskowitz, Richter and Gische, JJ.


