
	Credit Agricole Corporate & Inv. Bank N.Y. Branch v BDC
Fin., L.L.C.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01242 [114 AD3d 552]
	February 20, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank New York
Branch, Formerly Known as Calyon New York Branch, et al.,
Respondents,
v
BDC Finance, L.L.C., et al.,
Appellants.


—[*1]


Richards Kibbe & Orbe LLP, Washington, DC (David W.T. Daniels of the bar
of the District of Columbia, admitted pro hac vice, of counsel), for appellants.

White & Case LLP, New York (J. Christopher Shore of counsel), for
respondents.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Paul G. Feinman, J.), entered September
6, 2012, which, to the extent appealed from, granted plaintiffs' CPLR 3211 (a) (7) motion
to dismiss the third counterclaim asserted by defendant BDC Finance, L.L.C. and
counterclaim-plaintiffs Black Diamond Capital Management, L.L.C. and Black Diamond
CLO 2006-1 (Cayman), Ltd. (collectively, BD-defendants) sounding in defamation, and
directed that the claim be severed and judgment entered thereon, unanimously affirmed,
with costs.

The third counterclaim, alleging libel and slander by plaintiffs' counsel in connection
with statements he made to a reporter that were printed in an article published in a
financial news publication, was properly dismissed. The article, fairly read, summarized
bankruptcy proceedings in which BD-defendants, who held a majority interest in the
debtor's credit financing obligations, acquired the right to supervise the liquidation of the
debtor's assets. Plaintiffs, the debtor's minority secured lenders, argued that the sale of the
debtor's assets at auction using a "credit bid" effectively compromised their security
interests in the assets. Plaintiffs further argued that the bankruptcy trustee's motion
seeking court approval of the auction sale, in essence, failed to adequately protect their
security interests. In this context, plaintiffs' counsel's statement to the reporter that it was
his belief that the trustee's motion for court approval was "based upon a misconception
that something could be good for a liquidating estate but not for its creditors
. . . [and that] [j]ust because the Corleones pay for fireworks in Little Italy
doesn't mean they're good guys," would be interpreted by a reasonable reader to be of and
concerning the trustee's conduct, not that of BD-defendants (see Aronson v
Wiersma, 65 NY2d 592, 594 [1985]). Further, this statement is entitled to absolute
privilege because it was made in connection with a judicial proceeding (see Rosenberg v MetLife, Inc.,
8 NY3d 359, 365 [2007]; Civil Rights Law § 74).

Another statement contained in the article, asserting that "the plan proponents" argue
that the "sale motion gives Black Diamond at least $126 million in value that belongs to
secured [*2]lenders in exchange for a mere $4.6 million
payout to unsecured lenders" is also alleged to be defamatory. This statement is also
privileged (id.), and, in any event, is non-actionable since it has not been pleaded
with the requisite particularity. BD-defendants have not adequately alleged the
statement's falsity nor have they sufficiently asserted that it was made by plaintiff's
counsel, rather than any of the members of plaintiffs, to whom the statement is attributed.
Concur—Gonzalez, P.J., Tom, Saxe, Freedman and Manzanet-Daniels, JJ.


