
	Walton v Strong Mem. Hosp.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01084 [114 AD3d 1289]
	February 14, 2014
	Appellate Division, Fourth Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Adam L. Walton, Appellant,
v
Strong Memorial
Hospital et al., Respondents, et al., Defendants. (Appeal No.
2.)


—[*1]


Brown Chiari LLP, Lancaster, Magavern Magavern Grimm LLP, Buffalo
(Edward J. Markarian of counsel), for plaintiff-appellant.

Martin Clearwater & Bell LLP, New York City (Barbara D. Goldberg of counsel),
for defendants-respondents.



Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Erie County (John M. Curran, J.),
entered December 5, 2012. The judgment dismissed all claims against
defendants-respondents with prejudice.

It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from is unanimously affirmed
without costs.

Memorandum: Plaintiff commenced this medical malpractice action seeking damages
for injuries he sustained that allegedly resulted from defendants' failure to remove a
polyvinyl catheter from his heart after surgery. Plaintiff underwent heart surgery when he
was three years old and, during the surgery, polyvinyl catheters were placed inside
plaintiff's heart to record atrial pressure. Three days later, a follow-up procedure was
performed to remove the catheters. A nursing note indicated that a catheter "possibly
broke off with a portion remaining in [patient]." In December 2008, when plaintiff was
25 years old, an echocardiogram showed a "linear density" inside plaintiff's heart. During
a subsequent surgery, a 13-centimeter loop of plastic tubing was removed from plaintiff's
heart.

We conclude that Supreme Court properly granted the motion of
defendants-respondents seeking dismissal of the complaint as time-barred, but our
reasoning differs from that of the court. The issue before us is the applicability of the
foreign object exception to the medical malpractice statute of limitations (see
CPLR 214-a). In granting the motion, the court determined that the polyvinyl
catheter was not a fixation device, but that the catheter did not fit within the legal
definition of a foreign object. We, however, conclude that the polyvinyl catheter was a
fixation device. We therefore reject plaintiff's contention that the polyvinyl catheter was
not a fixation device and therefore must be a foreign object within the meaning of CPLR
214-a. Fixation devices are "placed in the patient with the intention that they will remain
to serve some continuing treatment purpose" (Rockefeller v Moront, 81 NY2d
560, 564 [1993]), while foreign objects are "negligently left in the patient's body without
any intended continuing treatment purpose" (LaBarbera v New York Eye & Ear
Infirmary, 91 NY2d 207, 212 [1998] [internal quotation marks and emphasis
omitted]). The polyvinyl catheter here was a fixation device and was not a foreign object
because it was intentionally placed inside plaintiff's body to monitor atrial pressure for a
few days after the surgery, i.e., it was placed for a continuing treatment purpose.
Present—Centra, J.P., Peradotto, Lindley, Sconiers and Whalen, JJ.


