
	Goler v Sonsky
	2014 NY Slip Op 01433 [115 AD3d 644]
	March 5, 2014
	Appellate Division, Second Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, April 30, 2014






	Yevgeniy Goler et al., Appellants,
v
Alan Sonsky
et al., Defendants, and Mario DiBlasio et al., Respondents.


—[*1]



Mark M. Basichas & Associates, P.C., New York, N.Y. (Aleksey Feygin of
counsel), for appellants.

Schuchman Schwarz & Zoldan-Leite, LLP, New York, N.Y. (Joseph K. Schwarz of
counsel), for respondent Mario DiBlasio.

Aaronson Rappaport Feinstein & Deutsch, LLP, New York, N.Y. (Elliott J. Zucker
of counsel), for respondent New York Community Hospital.



In an action, inter alia, to recover damages for medical malpractice, the plaintiffs
appeal, as limited by their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings
County (Bunyan, J.), dated April 2, 2012, as granted the separate motions of the
defendants Mario DiBlasio and New York Community Hospital for summary judgment
dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against each of them.

Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with one bill of costs.

In this medical malpractice action, the plaintiffs contend that the Supreme Court
erred in granting the motion of the defendant Mario DiBlasio, a radiologist, for summary
judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against him. Their contention is
without merit. DiBlasio's submissions in support of his motion, which included the
affidavit of an expert radiologist, established that he did not depart from accepted
medical practice in his treatment of the plaintiff Yevgeniy Goler (see Rivers v Birnbaum, 102
AD3d 26, 44-46 [2012]; Ahmed v New York City Health & Hosps. Corp., 84 AD3d
709, 711 [2011]). The affirmation of the plaintiffs' expert radiologist and the
affidavit of the plaintiffs' expert surgeon submitted in opposition to the motion were
insufficient to raise a triable issue of fact.

In addition, the Supreme Court properly granted the motion of New York
Community Hospital (hereinafter NYCH) for summary judgment dismissing the
complaint insofar as asserted against it. Because DiBlasio did not commit malpractice, no
basis exists for proceeding against NYCH under a vicarious liability theory (see Simmons v Brooklyn Hosp.
Ctr., 74 AD3d 1174, 1178-1179 [2010]).

In light of our determination, we need not address the parties' remaining contentions.
Mastro, J.P., Dickerson, Lott and Hinds-Radix, JJ., concur.


