
	Matter of Empire State Realty Trust, Inc. Inv. Litig.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01265 [114 AD3d 570]
	February 25, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In the Matter of Empire State Realty Trust, Inc. Investor
Litigation. Leon Meyers et al., Respondents, and Mary Jane Fales et al., Intervenor
Plaintiffs-Appellants,
v
Malkin Holdings L.L.C. et al.,
Respondents.


—[*1]


Meister Seelig & Fein LLP, New York (Stephen B. Meister of counsel), for
appellants.

Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP, New York (Lawrence P. Kolker of
counsel), for Leon Meyers, Laurence Reinlieb, Susan Bandler, Joseph Weiss and Steven
Keenholtz, respondents.

Dewey Pegano & Kramarsky LLP, New York (Thomas E.L. Dewey of counsel), for
the Malkin respondents.

Ronald S. Rolfe, New York, for the Estate of Leona M. Helmsley,
respondent.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (O. Peter Sherwood, J.), entered April 30,
2013, which denied appellants' application for a judicial declaration that a contractual
buyout provision violates the Limited Liability Company Law, unanimously affirmed,
without costs.

In this action relating to participation agreements entered into by the partners of
Empire State Building Associates (ESBA) pursuant to which they each syndicated their
beneficial interests in ESBA into 1,100 "Participation Interests," which were sold to
more than 3,000 passive investors, appellants, who are ESBA participants with a
fractional ownership interest in an ESBA membership interest, maintain that the buyout
provisions contained in the participation agreements are invalid and unenforceable under
Limited Liability Company Law § 1002 because they deprive dissenting investors
of their statutorily guaranteed right to the "fair value" of their interests. The motion court
properly denied appellants' application for a declaration that the buyout provisions
violate the Limited Liability Company Law since appellants are not "members" in the
limited liability company who are entitled to the fair value appraisal [*2]protections set forth in section 1002 (f).

We have considered the parties' additional arguments and find them unavailing.
Concur—Gonzalez, P.J., Andrias, Saxe, Richter and Clark, JJ. [Prior Case
History: 2013 NY Slip Op 33205(U).]


