
	Matter of Corey McM. (Randy McM.)
	2014 NY Slip Op 01111 [114 AD3d 516]
	February 18, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In 
     the Matter of Corey McM., a Child Alleged to be Neglected. Randy McM.,
Appellant; Edwin Gould Services for Children and Families et al.,
Respondents.


—[*1]


Law Offices of Randall S. Carmel, Syosset (Randall S. Carmel of counsel), for
appellant.

Steven N. Feinman, White Plains, attorney for the child.



Order, Family Court, Bronx County (Gayle P. Roberts, J.), entered on or about
September 1, 2012, which denied the father's habeas corpus petition seeking the return of
the subject child Corey 
McM., and granted the motion of the Administration of Children's Services to reinstate
the neglect proceedings against the father, unanimously affirmed, without costs.

The Family Court appropriately vacated the August 4, 2008 order dismissing the
neglect proceeding, and reinstated said proceeding nunc pro tunc. Dismissal of the
neglect proceeding, occasioned by the disposition of permanency hearings and the
termination of parental rights after the father's default, was a mere ministerial act. In light
of the powers granted under Family Court Act §§ 1055 and 1088, the
father's contention that the Family Court was not authorized to correct the procedural
problem encountered when the father's default was vacated is without merit (see
Matter of Dale P., 84 NY2d 72 [1994]). The father's contention that a more equitable
result would have been to direct ACS to begin all proceedings anew is also without
merit, as such [*2]a directive would disrupt the child's
stable home and place the father in a more advantageous position than if he had never
defaulted in the permanent neglect proceeding. The court more appropriately restored the
predefault status quo. Concur—Sweeny, J.P., Renwick, Moskowitz, Richter and
Gische, JJ.


