
	Matter of Apjohn v Lubinski
	2014 NY Slip Op 01231 [114 AD3d 1061]
	February 20, 2014
	Appellate Division, Third Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In the Matter of Maureen Apjohn, Formerly Known as
Maureen Lubinski, Respondent,
v
David E. Lubinski, Appellant. (And Another
Related Proceeding.)


—[*1]


David E. Lubinski, Edgewater, Florida, appellant pro se.

Jon Kosich, Greenville, for respondent.



Garry, J. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Greene County (Tailleur, J.),
entered February 22, 2013, which, in a proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 4,
denied respondent's objections to the order of a Support Magistrate.

Petitioner (hereinafter the mother) and respondent (hereinafter the father) are the
divorced parents of a son (born in 1993). In 1994, the parties executed a separation
agreement which was incorporated, but not merged, into their judgment of divorce. In
July 2011, the mother commenced this proceeding seeking an upward modification of
child support and alleging that the father had failed to pay health insurance costs and
college expenses for the son as required by the agreement. The father separately
petitioned for, among other relief, a downward modification of support and
reimbursement for alleged past overpayments. Following a hearing, a Support Magistrate
issued an order and findings of fact to which the father objected. After Family Court
sustained some of his objections, the Support Magistrate issued supplemental findings of
fact and an order that, among other things, directed the father to pay specified college
expenses and decreased his obligation for health insurance expenses. Family Court
denied the father's further objections, and the father appeals.
[*2]
The father first contends that Family Court erred
in several respects in determining his obligation to contribute to the son's college
expenses. The parties' agreement contains a "cap" provision; each party is required to
contribute to the son's undergraduate college costs in an amount not to exceed half of the
cost of tuition, room and board at a college or university that is part of the State
University of New York (hereinafter SUNY). The agreement further provides that the
son must apply to "the said college or university" for all possible grants, scholarships and
financial aid before either party is obliged to pay any college costs. The son applied for
and obtained financial aid from the private college where he enrolled in September 2011,
as well as an outside scholarship. However, the father contends that the agreement
required the son to apply to a SUNY institution for financial aid, and that as he did not
do so, the father has no obligation to contribute anything toward his expenses. We
disagree.

Ambiguity in a separation agreement is resolved, as with any contract, by
determining the parties' intent from within the instrument's four corners, if possible, and
otherwise from extrinsic evidence (see Fecteau v Fecteau, 97 AD3d 999, 999-1000 [2012]; Bjerke v Bjerke, 69 AD3d
1042, 1044 [2010]). In doing so, "[t]he court is not limited to the literal language of
the agreement, but should also include a consideration of whatever may be reasonably
implied from that literal language" (Desautels v Desautels, 80 AD3d 926, 928 [2011] [internal
quotation marks and citation omitted]). In resolving the ambiguity as to whether the
requirement to apply to "the said college or university" for financial aid refers to a SUNY
institution or to the college attended by the son, we note that the agreement does not
require the son to attend or apply for admission at a SUNY school, and the father did not
show that it is possible to apply to a SUNY institution for financial aid without also
applying for admission. Further, the contract provides that the parties "expect[ ] and
desire" the son to pursue higher education, and it is a reasonable inference that they
intended to facilitate this mutual goal not only by contributing to the cost, but also by
ensuring that any available financial aid would be secured from the institution attended
by the son to make it as affordable as possible. Accordingly, we agree that the son's
financial aid application to the college where he enrolled was sufficient to trigger the
father's contractual obligation to contribute to the son's expenses.

The agreement is further ambiguous as to whether financial aid obtained by the son
is to be applied to reduce the parties' contributions, or to the son's remaining expenses.
For reasons similar to those just discussed, we find that Family Court properly reduced
the father's tuition obligation by the amount of the son's outside scholarship—a
relatively small, one-time award—but not by the amount of a four-year grant
received directly from the private college. As applied here, the private grant, which was
calculated in accord with that school's tuition cost rather than the lower tuition at a
SUNY school, is sufficiently large such that setting it off against the father's contribution
would result in completely negating any tuition obligation from him, while leaving the
son with a substantial bill. The agreement cannot reasonably be interpreted to require this
result, which is inconsistent with the parties' stated desire for the son to obtain higher
education and their explicit intent to contribute to this expense.

In view of this clearly-expressed intent, we further find that Family Court erred in
subtracting loans obtained by the son from the amount to be contributed by the parties.
The agreement requires the son to apply for "scholarships, grant money or financial aid"
but neither mentions loans nor requires the son to obtain them (see Matter of Frank v Frank,
88 AD3d 1123, 1124 [2011]; compare Matter of Cranston v Horton, 99 AD3d 1090,
1092 [2012]; Matter of Hartle v Cobane, 228 AD2d 756, 757-758 [1996]). As
repayment will apparently be the son's responsibility rather than that of either party, and
in the absence of clear direction in the [*3]agreement, it
was error to take the loans into account in calculating the parties' obligations (see Bungart v Bungart, 107
AD3d 751, 752 [2013]; Matter of Korosh v Korosh, 99 AD3d 909, 911 [2012]; Matter of Kent v Kent, 29
AD3d 123, 134 [2006]).

There was no error in crediting the father's already-existing child support obligation
against room and board costs, but not against tuition. In the absence of specific
contractual language, the availability and amount of such a credit "depend[ ] upon the
facts and circumstances in the particular case, taking into account the needs of the
custodial parent to maintain a household and provide certain necessaries" (Paro v
Paro, 215 AD2d 965, 966 [1995]). Here, the agreement simply requires that the
amount of child support being paid by the father and the actual costs and expenses of the
mother "shall be considered"—and Family Court gave due consideration to these
circumstances.

The child support credit is greater than half of the cost of room and board at a SUNY
institution and thus fully satisfies this aspect of the father's obligation. In determining the
maximum amount of his remaining contribution, SUNY costs for fees, books and
supplies should not have been included in addition to SUNY tuition. A court must not
create a new agreement for the parties under the guise of contract construction, but must
instead ascertain their intent "to the extent that [they] evidenced what they intended by
what they wrote" (Slatt v Slatt, 64 NY2d 966, 967 [1985] [internal quotation
marks and citation omitted]). Here, the plain language of the parties' agreement provided
that the maximum amount was to be calculated based solely upon "tuition, room and
board" at a SUNY institution. According to the SUNY information submitted by the
parties, tuition for the academic year in question was $5,270; other fees and expenses
were not included in this amount, but were listed as separate categories. Thus, deducting
the son's one-year outside scholarship from the tuition figure and dividing the remainder
in half, the father's maximum obligation for the son's college costs is $2,335.

Family Court correctly held that the plain language of the parties' agreement requires
the mother to keep the son on her health insurance so long as that insurance is available
to her, while the father is responsible for deductibles and copayments; contrary to the
father's contention, the agreement does not permit him to put the son on his health
insurance as an alternative. Finally, the father's claim for credit based upon overpayments
of health insurance was properly denied. Pursuant to prior support orders, the father pays
the share of the mother's health insurance premiums attributable to the difference
between individual coverage and a family plan. The father sought a reduction based upon
the mother's addition of her new husband to the family plan in 2009. In light of the
strong public policy against recoupment of child support overpayments and the absence
of any provision for such recoupment in the Child Support Standards Act, we find no
error in the denial of reimbursement to the father for any portion of his previous
payments (see Johnson v
Chapin, 12 NY3d 461, 466 [2009]; Baraby v Baraby, 250 AD2d 201,
205 [1998]), despite the Support Magistrate's determination reducing his future
obligation.[FN*]


Peters, P.J., Stein and McCarthy, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is modified, on
the law, without costs, by reversing so much thereof as (1) denied respondent's objection
to the inclusion of costs other than tuition, room and board at a State University of New
York institution in determining his maximum obligation for college costs, and (2)
sustained respondent's objection to the calculation of this obligation by applying student
loans obtained by the son to reduce respondent's obligation; respondent's obligation for
college expenses modified to $2,335; and, as so modified, affirmed.


Footnotes




Footnote *: Notably, the addition of
the husband did not alter the cost of the family plan.




