
	Matter of State of New York v Barry W.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01357 [114 AD3d 1093]
	February 27, 2014
	Appellate Division, Third Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In the Matter of State of New York, Respondent, v Barry
W., Appellant.


—[*1]


Sheila E. Shea, Mental Hygiene Legal Service, Albany (Thomas A. Callaghan
of counsel), for appellant.

Eric T. Schneiderman, Attorney General, Albany (Allyson B. Levine of counsel), for
respondent.



Egan Jr., J. Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court (Hall, J.), entered November
30, 2012 in Washington County, which granted petitioner's application, in a proceeding
pursuant to Mental Hygiene Law article 10, to find respondent to be a dangerous sex
offender and confined him to a secure treatment facility.

In February 1990, respondent pleaded guilty to attempted assault in the second
degree and subsequently was sentenced to a prison term of 1½ to 3 years. The
conviction stemmed from an incident that occurred in October 1989 wherein respondent
and another individual handcuffed the 20-year-old male victim to the base of a toilet for
nine hours, during which time respondent repeatedly threatened the young man's life,
urged his accomplice to stab the victim with a knife and attempted to force the victim to
perform oral sex. Thereafter, in May 1992, respondent was convicted of, insofar as is
relevant here, three counts of sexual abuse in the third degree—based upon his
conduct involving a 10-year-old girl and a six-year-old boy—and was sentenced
to, among other things, consecutive prison terms of 3½ to 7 years. According to the
victims, respondent touched the young girl's breasts and vagina while respondent's wife
was asleep in the same room and hanged the young boy—by his
testicles—from a support beam in the basement of his residence for what was
reported to be approximately 20 minutes. Although respondent completed a sex offender
treatment program while incarcerated, he subsequently denied—during [*2]the course of a parole interview—the conduct
forming the basis for the 1992 convictions and was asked to again complete a treatment
program. Respondent refused.

Thereafter, and in anticipation of respondent's release from prison, petitioner
commenced this proceeding pursuant to Mental Hygiene Law article 10 seeking, among
other things, an order finding that there was probable cause to believe that respondent
was a sex offender requiring civil management. Respondent subsequently stipulated that
he was a detained sex offender (see Mental Hygiene Law § 10.03 [g])
suffering from a mental abnormality (see Mental Hygiene Law § 10.03 [i])
and waived his right to a jury trial on this issue. Following a dispositional hearing,
Supreme Court found that petitioner had established—by clear and convincing
evidence—that respondent was a dangerous sex offender in need of confinement
and committed respondent to a secure treatment facility. This appeal by respondent
ensued.

We affirm. "To demonstrate that respondent is a dangerous sex offender requiring
civil confinement, petitioner was required to prove 'by clear and convincing evidence that
. . . respondent has a mental abnormality involving such a strong
predisposition to commit sex offenses, and such an inability to control [his] behavior,
that [he] is likely to be a danger to others and to commit sex offenses if not confined to a
secure treatment facility' " (Matter of State of New York v Walter W., 94 AD3d 1177,
1178 [2012], lv denied 19 NY3d 810 [2012], quoting Mental Hygiene Law
§ 10.07 [f]; see Matter of
State of New York v Jason H., 82 AD3d 778, 779 [2011]; Matter of State of New York v
Craig T., 77 AD3d 1062, 1063 [2010]). Based upon our independent review of
the record, and according due deference to Supreme Court's credibility determinations
(see Matter of State of New York v Walter W., 94 AD3d at 1180; Matter of State of New York v
Kenneth BB., 93 AD3d 900, 902 [2012]), we are satisfied that petitioner
discharged its statutory burden here.

Although respondent's expert, Leonard Bard, testified that respondent did not suffer
from any diagnosable mental condition, respondent conceded that he was a detained sex
offender suffering from a mental abnormality, and petitioner's expert, Timothy
Wisniewski, diagnosed respondent as a sexual sadist with an antisocial personality
disorder and a psychopathic personality. As to the remaining elements, Wisniewski
testified that respondent's "wide victim pool ranging from very small children to adults,"
coupled with his admission that "he has . . . fantasies about abusing other
people," indicated that respondent possessed "a very strong predisposition to commit
sexual offenses." Wisniewski further testified that respondent's denial of the subject
offenses, together with his pattern of escalation (as evidenced by his progression from
abusing the six-year-old victim for approximately 20 minutes to his abuse of the
20-year-old victim for approximately nine hours[FN1]

) and the fact that he abused his victims despite the potential consequences or risk of
detection,[FN2]

 all evidenced respondent's inability to control his [*3]behavior. Specifically, Wisniewski opined that "by denying
the fact that he has a sadistic problem or his psychopathy, [respondent] is going to be
unable to attend to the triggers and things that occur within the community to let him
know when he is in a lot of danger." Although Wisniewski acknowledged that
respondent did not have a history of sex-related disciplinary infractions while
incarcerated, Wisniewski nonetheless was of the view that respondent's untreated sexual
deviance and psychopathy constituted a "deadly combination" that placed him at a "very
high risk within the community for sexual recidivism." For all of these reasons, and
based upon respondent's scoring on certain actuarial risk assessment instruments,
Wisniewski concluded that respondent's release into strict and intensive supervision and
treatment in the community was not a viable option, as "the community [was] a
completely inappropriate place to be dealing with [respondent's] violent sexual urges."

Although Bard disagreed with Wisniewski's diagnosis of sexual sadism, testified that
respondent no longer showed signs of an antisocial personality disorder, discounted the
significance of the actuarial instruments utilized by Wisniewski and contended that
respondent had demonstrated an ability to control his behavior, thereby rendering him "a
good candidate" for supervised release, "Supreme Court was in the best position to
evaluate the weight and credibility of the conflicting psychiatric testimony presented"
(Matter of State of New York v Craig T., 77 AD3d at 1064 [internal quotation
marks and citation omitted]) and was free to credit Wisniewski's testimony over that
offered by Bard. Accordingly, based upon our review of the record as a whole, we
discern no basis upon which to disturb Supreme Court's finding that respondent is a
dangerous sex offender in need of confinement (see Matter of State of New York v Donald DD., 107 AD3d
1062, 1064-1065 [2013], lv granted 21 NY3d 866 [2013]; Matter of State of New York v
Lonard ZZ., 100 AD3d 1279, 1280-1281 [2012]; Matter of State of New York v
Timothy EE., 97 AD3d 996, 998-999 [2012]; Matter of State of New York v
Richard VV., 74 AD3d 1402, 1405 [2010]). Respondent's remaining
contentions, to the extent not specifically addressed, have been examined and found to be
lacking in merit.

Lahtinen, J.P., Stein and McCarthy, JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is affirmed,
without costs.


Footnotes




Footnote 1: Although respondent
was not convicted of the crimes involving the younger children until 1992, the
underlying conduct occurred prior to his abuse of the 20-year-old victim in late 1989.




Footnote 2: Wisniewski noted that
respondent made no attempt to disguise his identity during the nine-hour incident
involving the 20-year-old victim and abused the 10-year-old victim while his wife was
sleeping in the same room.




