
	Tarry Realty LLC v Utica First Ins. Co.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01117 [114 AD3d 520]
	February 18, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Tarry Realty LLC, Appellant,
v
Utica First
Insurance Company, Respondent, and Sinis Contracting, Inc.,
Appellant.


—[*1]


Melito & Adolfsen P.C., New York (Ignatius John Melito of counsel), for Tarry
Realty LLC, appellant.

Arnold Stream, New York, for Sinis Contracting, Inc., appellant.

Farber, Brocks & Zane, LLP, Garden City (Sherri N. Pavloff of counsel), for
respondent.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Saliann Scarpulla, J.), entered October
22, 2013, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the briefs, granted defendant
Utica First Insurance Company's motion for summary judgment declaring that it is not
obligated to defend and indemnify defendant Sinis Contracting, Inc. in the underlying
personal injury action, denied plaintiff's and Sinis's motions for summary judgment
declaring in their favor, and declared that Utica First has no obligation to defend and
indemnify Sinis in the underlying action, unanimously affirmed, without costs.

The allegation in the underlying complaint and bill of particulars that defendant Sinis
was the project general contractor contradicted the signed statement taken by Utica First
of Sinis's principal, on which Utica First was entitled to rely (see Federated Dept. Stores, Inc. v
Twin City Fire Ins. Co., 28 AD3d 32, 37 [1st Dept 2006]). Sinis's principal's
own deposition testimony in January 2012 did not make clear whether Sinis was the
general contractor for the entire project, including the exterior masonry work in which
the underlying plaintiff, an employee of subcontractor Briga Landscaping, Inc., was
engaged when he was injured, or for the interior work only, which included work done in
the basement by Briga. It was only made clear in Sinis's February 8, 2013 answer to the
instant complaint that plaintiff, the owner of the project, hired Sinis as the general
contractor for the entire project and that Sinis hired Briga to perform exterior masonry
work, and again in an affidavit dated March 4, 2013 by Sinis's principal, who stated that
Sinis hired Briga as a subcontractor on the project.

Contrary to plaintiff and Sinis's contention, equitable estoppel does not bar Utica
First from relying on the policy exclusion on which it based its March 7, 2013 disclaimer.
Although Utica First defended Sinis for two years, through the completion of discovery,
there has been no [*2]disposition in the underlying
action, and there is no evidence that the action is close to trial (see 206-208 Main St. Assoc., Inc. v
Arch Ins. Co., 106 AD3d 403, 406 [1st Dept 2013]). Nor will estoppel be
invoked simply because Utica First agreed to defend Sinis without reserving its rights
(see Federated Dept. Stores, 28 AD3d at 36). Concur—Sweeny, J.P.,
Renwick, Moskowitz, Richter and Gische, JJ.


