
	Matter of Rock v Rhea
	2014 NY Slip Op 01268 [114 AD3d 578]
	February 25, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In the Matter of Amiyna Rock, Petitioner,
v
John
B. Rhea, Respondent.


—[*1]


Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer US LLP, New York (Julia Lisztwan of
counsel), for petitioner.

Kelly D. MacNeal, New York (Andrew M. Lupin of counsel), for
respondent.



Determination of respondent New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA), dated
January 17, 2012, which terminated petitioner's public housing tenancy on the ground of
nondesirability, unanimously modified, on the law, the penalty of termination vacated,
the matter remanded to respondents for imposition of a lesser penalty, and the proceeding
brought pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by order of Supreme
Court, New York County [Arlene P. Bluth, J.], entered December 20, 2012), otherwise
disposed of by confirming the remainder of the determination, without costs.

On October 13, 2009, petitioner visited the management office for Marble Hill
Houses, the public housing complex where she resides and which is managed by
NYCHA. Petitioner came to the office to seek a rent adjustment, which she believed was
warranted by the recent termination of disability assistance that had been granted her
after a difficult pregnancy. Petitioner spoke with Celinette Severiano, a resident services
associate, and presented some documentation which petitioner maintained established the
loss of benefits. Severiano pointed out to petitioner that the documentation was
inconclusive on the issue of whether the disability assistance had in fact been terminated.
Severiano advised petitioner that the documentation was insufficient and that she would
need to come back with more paperwork.

According to Severiano's testimony at the administrative hearing, petitioner began to
yell and curse at her. Describing the atmosphere in her office as "hostile," Severiano
decided to leave for the reception area, where her assistant manager was. To do so, she
was required to move petitioner's baby stroller (holding petitioner's youngest daughter)
out of the way, since it was blocking the door. Petitioner followed Severiano to the
reception area, accusing Severiano of pushing her stroller in disregard of her child's
safety. According to Severiano, she was concerned enough about petitioner's behavior to
call the police. However, before she could dial 911, petitioner grabbed the telephone that
Severiano intended to use and threw it towards her. Severiano moved and was not struck.
Petitioner was then removed from the reception area by several other NYCHA workers,
including the office manager, Simon Mukkatt. Petitioner was placed in an office, and the
entrance to the reception area was locked so petitioner could not re-enter it. According to
Severiano, petitioner eventually left the premises, making a threatening remark.
Severiano called the police and filed a police report, but petitioner was not arrested.
[*2]Severiano was eventually transferred to a different
office for what her superiors advised her was her "own safety and protection."

By notice dated October 15, 2009, NYCHA informed petitioner that it was
considering termination of her lease based on the incident of October 13, 2009. The
notice stated that before any action was taken she would have an opportunity to discuss
the incident at a meeting in the management office on October 23, 2009, or another time
more convenient to petitioner. It is unclear from the record whether the notice was
mailed to petitioner or personally delivered to her at her apartment. However, on October
16, according to Mukkatt, petitioner returned to the management office, "because we
filed a termination notice [against] her." Mukkatt testified that petitioner came to the
office with further information concerning her income, but that when he brought up the
possibility of termination, she became outraged and began cursing at him. Before she left
she disparaged what she perceived to be his country of origin.

NYCHA initiated charges which sought to terminate petitioner's tenancy based on
nondesirability as a result of, inter alia, the October 13, 2009 and October 16, 2009
incidents, and for breaching NYCHA's rules and regulations. A hearing comprised of
five separate sessions took place over the course of approximately 1½ years.
Petitioner did not testify; however, her counsel argued in a closing statement that
termination of petitioner's tenancy was not an appropriate penalty inasmuch as petitioner
is a single mother with a disabled child, a victim of domestic violence, and a lifelong
public housing tenant. Counsel further maintained that while petitioner's conduct was not
"fully excusable," it was "understandable" given petitioner's contention that Severiano
allegedly "jarred her baby carriage or pushed it on the way out of the room."

The Hearing Officer upheld the charges at issue and imposed termination as a
penalty, stating that while she had considered the mitigating circumstances, they were
"insufficient to overcome the risk the tenant poses to the safety of NYCHA employees."
Petitioner commenced this article 78 proceeding seeking to annul NYCHA's
determination. Supreme Court, pursuant to CPLR 7804 (g), transferred this matter to this
Court to determine whether NYCHA's determination is supported by substantial
evidence.

"In CPLR article 78 proceedings to review determinations of administrative
tribunals, the standard of review for the Appellate Divisions . . . is whether
there was substantial evidence to support the [administrative determination]" (Matter
of Wilson v City of White Plains, 95 NY2d 783, 784-785 [2000]). Substantial
evidence is less than a preponderance of the evidence, and "means such relevant proof as
a reasonable mind may accept as adequate to support a conclusion or ultimate fact" by
"its solid nature and ability to inspire confidence, [which] does not rise from bare
surmise, conjecture, speculation or rumor" (300 Gramatan Ave. Assoc. v State Div.
of Human Rights, 45 NY2d 176, 180 [1978]).

Pursuant to this standard, the evidence supporting the charges was substantial,
considering that petitioner's lease expressly prohibited her from engaging in violent
activity on and off the development, and required her to do everything necessary to
permit NYCHA to comply with applicable regulations. Further, the testimony of
Severiano, Mukkatt and another NYCHA employee who witnessed petitioner's first
outburst, was uncontested and accepted as credible by the Hearing Officer, a finding we
are without power to disturb (see Matter of Wooten v Finkle, 285 AD2d 407,
408 [1st Dept 2001] ["the decision by an Administrative Hearing Officer to credit the
testimony of a given witness is largely unreviewable by the courts" (internal quotation
marks omitted)]).
[*3]
We further reject petitioner's argument that the
administrative determination should be vacated because NYCHA violated its own
procedures. Petitioner argues that NYCHA failed to follow its management manual
because (1) before even considering termination it did not attempt to address with her the
underlying problem; (2) it did not seek to pursue an alternative solution other than
termination; (3) it did not adhere to the requirement that, when termination of tenancy is
being considered, NYCHA "must first interview the tenant in order to discuss the
problem(s) which may lead to termination of tenancy, seek to ascertain the facts involved
and, when appropriate, try to assist the tenant by securing outside help"; (4) it did not
fully document all of these steps in petitioner's file; and (5) the Hearing Officer did not
consider mitigating circumstances in imposing a penalty.

The first two arguments overlook the specific nature of the offending activity here.
The two incidents on October 13 and October 16, 2009 demonstrated that petitioner has a
volatile temper which has the potential to escalate rapidly from verbal abuse to physical
confrontation. This is not the type of condition which is readily amenable to solutions
that would ensure the safety of those who might find themselves at odds with petitioner.
In any event, when Mukkatt discussed termination with petitioner on October 16, 2009,
her outburst made clear that she had no interest in curing or resolving the offensive
behavior. Certainly NYCHA is not required to engage in intervention efforts that are
highly likely to be futile.

As for petitioner's contention that she was not afforded an interview before formal
termination proceedings were initiated, she failed to raise this specific objection before
the Hearing Officer, making review inappropriate (see Matter of Payano v Berlin, 95 AD3d 767 [1st Dept
2012]). Indeed, petitioner presented no evidence regarding when she received the
October 15 notice, leaving uncontested Mukkatt's testimony that she came in on October
16 in response to it. Contradicting petitioner's assertion that NYCHA failed to document
the pre-termination steps it took, the record includes notes taken by NYCHA managers
contemporaneously with the two incidents at issue, describing in detail the encounters
with petitioner. Finally, there is no question that the Hearing Officer discussed mitigation
in her decision.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, we find that termination of petitioner's tenancy, is,
based on the reviewable facts in this record, a penalty that is shocking to the conscience
and that must be vacated. We have found this to be so in similar cases of tenants
engaging in fits of rage targeted at NYCHA employees, where the conduct was isolated
or specifically related to circumstances that gave some explanation for the behavior. For
example, in Matter of Winn v Brown (226 AD2d 191 [1st Dept 1996]), this
Court found that, while NYCHA's determination of nondesirability was supported by
substantial evidence of the petitioner's actions, which "includ[ed] screaming profanities,
racial epithets and making threats to respondent's employees," the termination of the
petitioner's tenancy was shocking to the conscience given that the incidents in question
occurred when the tenant was having difficulty securing a transfer despite threats being
made against the life of her son. In Matter of Spand v Franco (242 AD2d 210,
210 [1st Dept 1997], lv denied 92 NY2d 802 [1998]), this Court remanded to
NYCHA for imposition of a lesser penalty where the tenant engaged in conduct that was
"serious" and "appropriately condemned," but eviction was disproportionate because the
incident was isolated, the tenant was the mother of three small children and there was no
evidence of other problems which posed a risk to other people or property. Even where a
tenant "accosted" a NYCHA representative, termination was considered too harsh
because the incident was isolated and because, like here, the target of the tenant's wrath
was not seriously injured (Matter of Peoples v New York City [*4]Hous. Auth., 281 AD2d 259, 260 [1st Dept 2001]).

On the record before us, the behavior described by NYCHA as undesirable can fairly
be characterized as isolated. Although there were two separate incidents, they occurred
within three days of each other and were both related to petitioner's effort to secure a rent
reduction. Further, none of the NYCHA employees who were targeted by petitioner's
rage was physically injured. We recognize that one of the charges leveled by NYCHA
against petitioner was predicated on a felony conviction for robbery in connection with
an incident on or near development grounds in April 2006, in which she apparently
physically assaulted another person. However, the Hearing Officer dismissed that charge
because, according to NYCHA rules, once five years pass after the completion of a
criminal sentence, the conviction cannot form the basis of regulatory charges.
Accordingly, it would not be appropriate for us to consider the conviction in determining
whether the penalty was appropriate.

Further, the incidents occurred under stressful conditions for petitioner. When the
incident occurred, petitioner had recently lost a portion of her income and was having
difficulty receiving immediate assurances that her rent would be commensurately
adjusted. In Peoples, the tenant's "considerable frustration" with a NYCHA
representative's refusal to acknowledge the condition of her apartment was a factor in
this Court's decision to vacate her termination (281 AD2d at 260). In addition, the
escalation in petitioner's behavior was apparently related to Severiano's pushing
petitioner's baby carriage out of the way. While there is no reason to question Severiano's
testimony that she merely nudged the carriage out of the doorframe, it would not be
surprising under the circumstances if this increased petitioner's stress level.

Finally, we have in the past found a tenant's need to care for children or disabled
persons to be a factor mitigating against eviction (see Matter of Vazquez v New York City Hous. Auth. [Robert
Fulton Houses], 57 AD3d 360 [1st Dept 2008]; Matter of Williams v
Franco, 262 AD2d 45 [1st Dept 1999]). Petitioner is the single mother of two young
children, one of whom suffers from a developmental disability and has needed medical
attention since her birth, and has been a victim of domestic violence. Taken
together with the isolated nature of the incidents in question and the circumstances
surrounding them, this factor certainly militates in favor of a lesser penalty.
Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P., Andrias, DeGrasse, Freedman and Gische, JJ.


