
	Barnes v Jewish Assn. Found.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01390 [114 AD3d 613]
	February 27, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Paul Barnes, Appellant,
v
Jewish Association
Foundation, Respondent.


—[*1]


Paul Barnes, appellant pro se.

Wenick & Finger, P.C., New York (Frank J. Wenick of counsel), for
respondent.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Emily Jane Goodman, J.), entered
September 25, 2009, which denied plaintiff's motion for summary judgment and
dismissed the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs.

In this action for negligence commenced by plaintiff pro se against defendant, his
former court appointed legal guardian, plaintiff failed to demonstrate that defendant was
a proximate cause of his purported injuries by allegedly causing him to be evicted from
his apartment and having him admitted to the hospital against his wishes. Plaintiff does
not dispute defendant's contention that there was a pending eviction proceeding against
him for rent arrears when defendant was appointed his guardian, and the record is devoid
of any evidence establishing how defendant caused him to be evicted. Moreover, the
record contains nothing to support plaintiff's contention that defendant caused him to
lose his possessions by improperly allowing the landlord access to his apartment, nor
does it establish that defendant caused plaintiff to be admitted to the hospital or that he
suffered any injuries while he was there. Since plaintiff failed to meet the initial burden
of establishing his entitlement to judgment as a matter of law, the motion for summary
judgment was properly denied (see Winegrad v New York Univ. Med. Ctr., 64
NY2d 851, 853 [1985]).

Contrary to defendant's contention, the record is insufficient to determine whether
this negligence action is barred by the three-year statute of limitations, or whether the
complaint is barred by the order dated August 14, 2006, releasing defendant from all
future liability related to its responsibilities as plaintiff's guardian. However, since the
complaint failed to properly plead [*2]a cause of action
for negligence, the motion court properly granted summary judgment dismissing the
complaint to defendant upon a search of the record (see Dunham v Hilco Constr.
Co., 89 NY2d 425, 429 [1996]). Concur—Tom, J.P., Friedman, Saxe, Richter
and Clark, JJ.


