
	Machado v A. Canterpass, LLC
	2014 NY Slip Op 01440 [115 AD3d 652]
	March 5, 2014
	Appellate Division, Second Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, April 30, 2014






	Genevieve Machado, Respondent,
v
A. Canterpass,
LLC, et al., Appellants.


—[*1]



Domenick Napoletano, Brooklyn, N.Y., for appellants.

Talisman DeLorenz & Pinnisi, P.C., Brooklyn, N.Y. (Dawn M. Pinnisi of counsel),
for respondent.



In an action, inter alia, to set aside transfers of real property as fraudulent
conveyances under the Debtor and Creditor Law, the defendants appeal, as limited by
their brief, from so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Kramer, J.),
dated April 27, 2012, as granted the plaintiff's motion, in effect, for summary judgment
to set aside certain conveyances of real property as fraudulent, denied their cross motion
to vacate a default judgment entered in another action, with leave to renew in that action,
and denied their application for an adjournment in order to submit a reply on that cross
motion.

Ordered that the notice of appeal from so much of the order as denied the defendants'
application for an adjournment is treated as an application for leave to appeal from that
portion of the order, and leave to appeal from that portion of the order is granted (see
CPLR 5701); and it is further,

Ordered that the order is affirmed insofar as appealed from, with costs.

After the plaintiff sent notice of her intention to pursue an action against Astel
Group, Inc. (hereinafter Astel), to recover damages for personal injuries she sustained on
Astel's property, the defendants Roman Mosejczuk and Grezegorz Pasternak, as
principals of Astel, arranged for Astel to convey that property and other property it
owned, without consideration, to the defendants A. Canterpass, LLC (hereinafter
Canterpass), and Theodore Tesla, LLC (hereinafter Tesla), companies of which
Mosejczuk and Pasternak were also principals, and dissolved Astel. After Astel failed to
answer or appear in the plaintiff's personal injury action against it, the plaintiff obtained a
default judgment against it and another company in the sum of $220,747.25.

The plaintiff then commenced the instant action against Canterpass, Tesla,
Mosejczuk, and Pasternak, seeking, inter alia, to set aside the conveyances of real
property by Astel to Canterpass and Tesla as fraudulent conveyances under the Debtor
and Creditor Law. In response to the plaintiff's motion, in effect, for summary judgment
on her causes of action to set aside those conveyances, the defendants cross-moved to
vacate Astel's default in the personal injury action. [*2]After the plaintiff opposed that cross motion, the Supreme
Court granted the plaintiff's motion, in effect, for summary judgment to set aside the
conveyances as fraudulent, denied the defendants' cross motion to vacate the default in
the personal injury action, with leave to renew in that action, and denied the defendants'
request for an adjournment in order to submit a reply on the cross motion.

The defendants' cross motion to vacate the default judgment against Astel in the
plaintiff's personal injury action was properly denied with leave to renew in that action,
as "[a] motion for relief from a default judgment must be brought in the original action or
proceeding" (Matter of
Calabrese Bakeries, Inc. v Rockland Bakery, Inc., 83 AD3d 1060, 1061 [2011]).
Moreover, the denial of the defendants' request for an adjournment in order to submit a
reply on the cross motion was not an improvident exercise of the court's discretion (see Matter of Steven B., 6
NY3d 888, 889 [2006]; Matter of Anthony M., 63 NY2d 270, 283 [1984]).

The plaintiff made a prima facie showing that she was entitled to judgment as a
matter of law on her cause of action to set aside the conveyances as fraudulent pursuant
to Debtor and Creditor Law § 276, and the defendants failed to raise a triable issue
of fact. The plaintiff submitted clear and convincing evidence establishing that the
conveyances of the properties at issue by Astel to Canterpass and Tesla were made with
the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud her ability to collect on her claim against Astel.
There was evidence that the conveyances were made shortly after the plaintiff sent her
second notice to Astel of her intent to pursue her claim for personal injuries arising out of
an accident at Astel's property. In addition, the conveyances were made for no
consideration, and the principals of the transferor, Astel, are also principals of the
transferees, Canterpass and Tesla, such that the same individuals had ownership and
control over the conveyed properties, before and after the conveyances.

Based on these "badges of fraud," and the defendants' failure to proffer any
legitimate explanation for the conveyances, the defendants' actual fraudulent intent is
readily inferrable, and the plaintiff is entitled to a judgment setting those conveyances
aside under Debtor and Creditor Law § 276 (Pen Pak Corp. v LaSalle Natl.
Bank of Chicago, 240 AD2d 384, 386 [1997]; see Kreisler Borg Florman Gen. Constr. Co., Inc. v Tower 56,
LLC, 58 AD3d 694, 696 [2009]; Matter of CIT Group/Commercial Servs., Inc. v 160-09 Jamaica
Ave. Ltd. Partnership, 25 AD3d 301, 303 [2006]; B.M.H. Mgt., Inc. v 81 & 3 of
Watertown, Inc., 13 AD3d 1182 [2004]; Jensen v Jensen, 256 AD2d
1162 [1998]; Dillon v Dean, 236 AD2d 360 [1997]; Marine Midland Bank v
Murkoff, 120 AD2d 122 [1986]).

Accordingly, the Supreme Court properly granted the plaintiff's motion, in effect, for
summary judgment to set aside the conveyances as fraudulent, denied the defendants'
cross motion to vacate the default in the personal injury action, with leave to renew in
that action, and denied the defendants' request for an adjournment in order to submit a
reply on the cross motion.

In light of our determination, we need not address the parties' remaining contentions.
Dillon, J.P., Balkin, Chambers and Cohen, JJ., concur.


