
	Matter of Olmosperez v Evans
	2014 NY Slip Op 01237 [114 AD3d 1077]
	February 20, 2014
	Appellate Division, Third Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In the Matter of Noel Olmosperez, Appellant, v Andrea W.
Evans, as Chair of the Board of Parole, Respondent.


—[*1]

Noel Olmosperez, Rome, appellant pro se.

Eric T. Schneiderman, Attorney General, Albany (William E. Storrs of counsel), for
respondent.



Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court (Lynch, J.), entered June 25, 2013 in
Albany County, which dismissed petitioner's application, in a proceeding pursuant to
CPLR article 78, to review a determination of the Board of Parole denying petitioner's
request for parole release.

Petitioner is presently serving two concurrent prison sentences of 22 years to life as
the result of his convictions for murder in the second degree. He reappeared before the
Board of Parole in February 2012, at which time the Board denied his request for parole
release and ordered him held for an additional 24 months. After he failed to receive a
timely response to his administrative appeal, petitioner commenced this CPLR article 78
proceeding. Supreme Court dismissed the petition, prompting this appeal by petitioner.

We affirm. Contrary to petitioner's contention, the record reflects that the Board
considered the relevant statutory factors in denying his request for parole release,
including his positive programming and disciplinary record, plans upon release, his
COMPAS risk and reentry needs assessment, nature of the instant offense and
expressions of remorse. While the Board placed particular emphasis on the heinous and
callous nature of the offense, we are unpersuaded that this demonstrates "irrationality
bordering on impropriety" (Matter of Lashway v Evans, 110 AD3d 1417, 1418 [2013]
[internal quotation marks and citation omitted]).

Petitioner's remaining contentions are either unpreserved for our review or without
[*2]merit.

Stein, J.P., McCarthy, Garry and Rose, JJ., concur. Ordered that the judgment is
affirmed, without costs.


