
	People v Sprint Nextel Corp.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01403 [114 AD3d 622]
	February 27, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	The People of the State of New York, by Eric T.
Schneiderman, Attorney General for the State of New York, et al.,
Respondents,
v
Sprint Nextel Corp. et al.,
Appellants.


—[*1]


Williams & Connolly LLP, Washington, DC (Kannon K. Shanmugam of the
bars of the State of Kansas and District of Columbia, admitted pro hac vice, of counsel),
for appellants.

Eric T. Schneiderman, Attorney General, New York (Brian A. Sutherland of
counsel), for respondents.

Morrison & Foerster LLP, New York (R. Gregory Roberts of counsel), for
Broadband Tax Institute, amicus curiae.

McDermott will & Emery LLP, New York (Arthur R. Rosen of counsel), for Council
of State Taxation, amicus curiae.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (O. Peter Sherwood, J.), entered July 1,
2013, which denied defendants' motion to dismiss the complaint in its entirety,
unanimously affirmed, without costs.

The court properly denied the motion to dismiss the complaint in its entirety.
Plaintiffs' complaint adequately alleges that defendants violated New York's False
Claims Act (State Finance Law § 189 [1] [g]), Executive Law § 63 (12) and
article 28 of the Tax Law by knowingly making false statements material to an obligation
to pay sales tax pursuant to Tax Law § 1105 (b) (2). Contrary to defendants'
interpretation, the Tax Law provision is not preempted by the Federal Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 USC § 116 et seq.).

The court also properly rejected defendants' argument that the New York False
Claims Act with respect to statements made under the Tax Law should not be given its
stated retroactive [*2]effect. Defendants fail to show that
the Act's sanction of civil penalties, including treble damages, is so punitive in nature and
effect as to have its retroactive effect barred by the Ex Post Facto Clause (US Const, art
I, § 10). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P., Acosta, Renwick, Freedman and
Manzanet-Daniels, JJ. [Prior Case History: 41 Misc 3d 511.]


