
	Abad v New York City Health & Hosps. Corp.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01254 [114 AD3d 564]
	February 20, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Sariel Abad, an Infant, by His Mother and Natural
Guardian, Yris Morales, Appellant,
v
New York City Health and Hospitals
Corporation, Respondent.


—[*1]

Fitzgerald & Fitzgerald, P.C., Yonkers (Mitchell Gittin of counsel), for
appellant.

Michael A. Cardozo, Corporation Counsel, New York (Drake A. Colley of counsel),
for respondent.



Judgment, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Douglas E. McKeon, J.), entered
November 18, 2010, dismissing the complaint, unanimously affirmed, without costs.
Appeal from order, same court and Justice, entered October 26, 2010, which denied
plaintiff's motion addressed to his notice of claim and granted defendant's cross motion
to dismiss the complaint, unanimously dismissed, without costs, as subsumed in the
appeal from the judgment.

Plaintiff appeals from the motion court's denial of his motion under General
Municipal Law § 50-e (5) for leave to serve a late notice of claim on defendant for
alleged obstetrical malpractice more than seven years after the claim accrued upon his
discharge from defendant's hospital on September 13, 2002, six days after his birth.
Plaintiff also appeals from the court's grant of defendant's cross motion for an order
dismissing the complaint.

Under General Municipal Law § 50-e, the 90-day period for plaintiff to serve
defendant with a notice of claim expired on December 14, 2002. In June 2004, plaintiff,
then aged 21½ months, was diagnosed with pervasive developmental disorders
(PDD), but it was not until May 2005 that plaintiff's attorneys served a purported notice
of claim on defendant alleging that plaintiff's injury was caused by defendant's
malpractice. In January 2006, plaintiff commenced this action, but then waited until
October 2009 to move for an order deeming the 2005 notice timely served nunc pro tunc,
or, alternatively granting leave to file another late notice of claim.

We find that the motion court providently exercised its discretion in denying
plaintiff's application. Section 50-e (5) of the General Municipal Law confers a court
with broad discretion whether to grant leave to serve late notice (see Diallo v City of
New York, 224 AD2d 339, 340 [1st Dept 1996]), and on appeal the court's
determination will not be disturbed absent a clear abuse of that discretion (Kirtley v Albany County Airport
Auth., 67 AD3d 1317, 1318 [3d Dept 2009]). In determining whether to grant
leave, the court is required under General Municipal Law § 50-e (5) to consider
whether the public corporation had actual knowledge of the facts [*2]constituting the claim within 90 days of its accrual or
shortly thereafter. Under the statute, the court must take into account all other relevant
facts and circumstances, including the plaintiff's infancy, whether a reasonable excuse for
the late notice was offered, and whether the delay substantially prejudiced the defendant's
defense on the merits (see General Municipal Law § 50-e [5]; Williams v Nassau County Med.
Ctr., 6 NY3d 531 [2006]).

Here, the motion court properly found that plaintiff's nearly seven-year delay in
seeking leave to serve a notice of claim prejudiced defendant and plaintiff had failed to
show otherwise (see Matter of
Catuosco v City of New York, 62 AD3d 995, 997 [2d Dept 2009]). Defendant
was prejudiced, given that neither the contemporaneous hospital records nor any
subsequent event served to notify defendant of the facts constituting the claim because
the records did not link defendant's actions with plaintiff's injury, which was diagnosed
nearly two years after defendant last treated plaintiff. In connection with a malpractice
claim against a municipal hospital, for the medical records to provide notice of a
plaintiff's claim, "the essential facts underlying the claim, including that the plaintiff
was injured, must be documented in the defendant's own medical record" (Cartagena v New York City Health
& Hosps. Corp., 93 AD3d 187, 188 [1st Dept 2012] [emphasis added]).

The court properly found that nothing in the hospital records would have alerted
defendant to any claim of malpractice during the delivery or of any lasting injury.
Although plaintiff's expert, Dr. Bruce Halbridge, a Texas practitioner, opined that the
unproductive labor that plaintiff's mother underwent before a cesarean section reduced
the oxygen reaching the fetus, nothing in the chart supports a hypoxic event. In fact, fetal
rate patters were classified as "reassuring" at all times. Plaintiff's Apgar scores both at his
birth and five minutes later were recorded as 
8 on a scale of 10, which score falls within the normal range (see e.g. Williams, 6
NY3d at 536-537 [affirming denial of leave to file late notice where hospital records
provided "scant" notice of lasting harm to infant who, after difficult delivery, scored
eight one minute after birth and nine after five minutes]; compare with Medley v
Cichon, 305 AD2d 643, 644 [2d Dept 2003] [hospital had notice of injury where
infant had zero Apgar score and had to be resuscitated at birth]).

Records of plaintiff's postnatal treatment would not have alerted defendant to
plaintiff's claimed injuries. When the hospital transferred plaintiff to the neonatal
intensive care unit because of placental abruption and anemia, he responded favorably to
oxygen and a blood transfusion. Upon his discharge on September 13, he was clinically
stable and all problems had been resolved.

The motion court acknowledged that plaintiff's infancy favored his application, but
that factor was outweighed by plaintiff's lack of a reasonable excuse for waiting seven
years before he applied for late service, coupled with defendant's lack of knowledge of
the claim. While plaintiff's mother claimed that she was ignorant of the law, her counsel,
who had been aware of this case since at least May 2005, did not offer any excuse for the
delay in commencing this action in 2006 and moving for leave in 2009. The court also
noted that the purported notice of claim that plaintiff's counsel had filed in May 2005
was a legal nullity because it had been served [*3]without
leave of the court (see Croce v
City of New York, 69 AD3d 488 [1st Dept 2010]).

Accordingly, we affirm the motion court's denial of leave to file a late notice and the
dismissal of the complaint. Concur—Friedman, J.P., Renwick, Freedman and
Feinman, JJ.


