
	Matter of Ronga v New York City Dept. of Educ.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01126 [114 AD3d 527]
	February 18, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In the Matter of Richard Ronga, Appellant,
v
New
York City Department of Education, Respondent.


—[*1]



Lichten & Bright, P.C., New York (Stuart Lichten of counsel), for appellant.

Michael A. Cardozo, Corporation Counsel, New York (Mordecai Newman of
counsel), for respondent.



Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Geoffrey D. Wright, J.), entered
August 12, 2013, denying the petition to vacate a post-hearing arbitration award finding
petitioner guilty of disciplinary charges and terminating his employment, unanimously
modified, on the law, to grant the petition as to specifications Nos. 5 and 6, and to vacate
the penalty of termination, and to remand the matter to respondent for consideration of
the appropriate penalty as to specifications Nos. 7 and 9, and otherwise affirmed, without
costs.

In specifications Nos. 5 and 6, respondent alleged that petitioner, then a principal at
P.S. 166 in Manhattan, improperly directed his math and literacy coaches to conduct
formal observations of unspecified teachers in the classroom during the period from
January 14, 2008 through the end of the 2007-2008 school year and to write observation
reports on his behalf. We find that these charges were not specific enough to satisfy the
principle of due process that actual notice be given so as to allow the preparation of an
adequate defense (see Wolfe v
Kelly, 79 AD3d 406, 410 [1st Dept 2010], appeal dismissed 17 NY3d
844 [2011]). Moreover, at the hearing, neither coach could recall the dates of any
observations, or the names of any of the teachers they observed; the math coach testified
to conducting between 3 and 10 observations, and the literacy coach testified that she
was "[p]ossibly" asked to conduct "one or two." Nor did respondent identify or present
any of the coaches' reports for the observations conducted during the six-month period.

We find that the hearing officer's determination that petitioner was guilty of
specifications Nos. 7 and 9 pertaining to specific acts of misconduct on June 17 and June
18, 2008 is supported by adequate evidence (see Lackow v Department of Educ. [or "Board"] of City of
N.Y., 51 AD3d 563, 567-568 [1st Dept 2008]). Irrespective of anything in the
math coach's file that may have undermined her credibility or established a specific bias
against petitioner, as to specification No. 7, the hearing officer found that the math
coach's testimony that petitioner directed her to stay late on June 17, 2008 to fabricate
formal observation reports of teachers and school-wide professional development plans
was credible and that her account was corroborated by the credible testimony of other
teachers who refuted the accuracy and/or authenticity of specific observation reports
identified by the math coach as falsely created on that [*2]night. The hearing officer also found petitioner's witness to
be generally incredible. These determinations are entitled to deference.

Petitioner argues that he was denied the opportunity to confront his accusers as to the
charge in specification No. 9 that on June 18, 2008 he submitted to the superintendent
the false reports and plans prepared the previous night. This argument misstates the
record. The finding was based in large part on the undisputed fact that the superintendent
had demanded the material during her visit to petitioner's school on June 17, 2008 and it
was not ready at that time, and petitioner's own email to the superintendent on June 18
informing her that the documents were being hand-delivered that morning. The hearing
officer rationally concluded that the false documents found to have been prepared the
night before constituted the material petitioner himself admitted sending to the
superintendent.

Since the penalty of termination was based on the finding of guilt on all four charges,
the matter must be remanded for reconsideration of the penalty.

We have considered petitioner's remaining arguments and find them unavailing.
Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P., Andrias, DeGrasse and Clark, JJ.


