
	Wong v German Masonic Corp.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01274 [114 AD3d 588]
	February 25, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Joyce Wong, Individually and as Administratrix of the
Goods, Chattels and Credits of Fredesbinda Wong, Also Known as Fredeswinda Wong,
Deceased, Appellant,
v
German Masonic Corporation, Doing Business as
Dumont Masonic Home, Respondent/Third-Party Plaintiff-Respondent, et al.,
Defendants. Nataliya Gorelko, M.D., Third-Party Defendant-Respondent, et al.,
Third-Party Defendant.



—[*1]


The Adam Law Office, P.C., New York (Richard Adam of counsel), for
appellant.

Ptashnik & Associates, LLC, New York (Richard M. Fedrow of counsel), for
German Masonic Corporation, respondent.

DeCorato Cohen Sheehan & Federico LLP, New York (Kari Merolesi of counsel),
for Nataliya Gorelko, M.D., respondent.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Milton A. Tingling, J.), entered February
22, 2012, which granted defendant German Masonic Corporation doing business as
Dumont Masonic Home's motion for summary judgment dismissing the complaint as
against it, unanimously affirmed, without costs.

Plaintiff's decedent, Fredeswinda Wong, was brought to Jacobi Hospital for
treatment of smoke inhalation due to a fire in her apartment. Decedent suffered from,
inter alia, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and dementia due to
Alzheimer's disease. In early February 2005, decedent was transferred from Jacobi to
defendant Dumont Masonic Home for rehabilitation. Both Jacobi and Dumont had taken
EKGs that revealed that decedent had [*2]tachycardia
(rapid heartbeat). At about 3:15 a.m. on March 25, 2004, decedent was sitting up in her
room, attempting to get dressed, and in an agitated state. The nurse contacted Nataliya
Gorelko, M.D., the on-call physician, who prescribed one milligram of Haldol to be
given intramuscularly for decedent's agitation. The Haldol was administered at 3:40 a.m.,
and decedent passed away at 5:05 a.m.

Defendant established prima facie entitlement to summary judgment, which
plaintiffs, by their expert, failed to rebut. In arguing that decedent, among other things,
should have been transferred to a hospital for adequate care of her heart condition,
plaintiff failed to demonstrate that inadequate care was rendered to decedent at the
Dumont Home. The record shows that decedent improved during her stay (see Rivera v Greenstein, 79
AD3d 564 [1st Dept 2010]). Further, while plaintiff's expert pathologist performed
an autopsy and concluded that decedent passed away from congestive heart failure,
decedent's medical records at the nursing home showed no signs of congestive heart
failure, although tests had been performed. Thus, even though plaintiff's expert found
congestive heart failure in his autopsy, there is no basis for finding that Dumont or its
staff should have had notice of it. As in Rivera, "[t]he autopsy gives the benefit
of hindsight that defendant, of course, did not have" (id. at 569).

Further, while plaintiff's expert opined in conclusory terms that Haldol was
contraindicated for patients with tachycardia and arrhythmia, decedent did not have
arrhythmia and, moreover, plaintiff's expert failed to demonstrate that the intramuscular
injection of Haldol increased decedent's heart rate. The medical records show that after
the Haldol was administered to decedent, her heart rate actually slowed down. Thus,
plaintiff failed to demonstrate that any departure on defendant's part proximately caused
decedent's death (see Sassen v
Lazar, 105 AD3d 410 [1st Dept 2013]).

We have considered plaintiffs' remaining contentions and find them unavailing.
Concur—Sweeny, J.P., Andrias, Moskowitz, DeGrasse and Gische, JJ.


