
	DePaul v NY Brush LLC
	2014 NY Slip Op 01386 [114 AD3d 609]
	February 27, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	William DePaul, Jr., et al.,
Respondents-Appellants,
v
NY Brush LLC et al., Appellants-Respondents, and
Ruttura & Sons Construction Co., Inc., Respondent/Third-Party Defendant-Respondent.
NY Brush LLC et al., Third-Party Plaintiffs-Appellants, v Coastal Electric Construction
Corp., Third-Party Defendant.


[Recalled and vacated, see 120 AD3d 1046.]

—[*1]


Malapero & Prisco, LLP, New York (Frank J. Lombardo of counsel), for
appellants-respondents/appellants.

Arye Lustig & Sassower, P.C., New York (Mitchell J. Sassower of counsel), for
respondents-appellants.

Milber Makris Plousadis & Seiden, LLP, White Plains (David C. Zegarelli of
counsel), for respondent.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Joan M. Kenney, J.), entered January 2,
2013, which, insofar as appealed from, denied the part of defendants Holt Construction
Corp., Pepsi Cola Bottling Company of New York, Inc., and NY Brush LLC's
(collectively, defendants) motion for summary judgment that sought to dismiss the Labor
Law § 200 and common-law negligence claims as against them, granted the part of
their motion that sought to dismiss the Labor Law § 241 (6) claim as against them,
denied the part of their motion that sought summary judgment on their contractual
indemnification claim against defendant/third-party defendant Ruttura & Sons
Construction Co., Inc., and granted the part of Ruttura's motion for summary judgment
that sought to dismiss the aforementioned contractual indemnification claim,
unanimously modified, on the law, to deny defendants' motion as to the Labor Law
§ 241 (6) [*2]claim insofar as it is predicated on a
violation of Industrial Code (12 NYCRR) § 23-1.11 (a), and to deny the part of
Ruttura's motion that sought to dismiss the contractual indemnification claim against it,
and otherwise affirmed, without costs.

Defendants, who do not dispute that plaintiff's injuries arose from a dangerous
condition, failed to demonstrate that they did not have constructive notice of that
dangerous condition, which was a wooden plank that plaintiff testified broke underneath
him while he was walking across it, and thus are not entitled to summary judgment
dismissing the Labor Law § 200 and common-law negligence claims. Plaintiff's
photographs of the site, taken immediately after he fell, show three wooden planks lined
up side by side but unconnected. The job superintendent and the site safety manager of
defendant Holt, the general contractor, admitted that these photos showed planks that
were wet and rotten, posing a hazard to any workers walking across them. These Holt
employees denied that Holt placed the planks there, and testified that they did not see any
dangerous condition on the site before the accident. However, they both conducted
regular inspections of the whole site, and the site safety manager would have inspected
the subject area about an hour before plaintiff fell. Moreover, plaintiff testified that he
had seen planks there for three weeks preceding his accident, and the defects observed in
the planks would tend to be longstanding. This evidence raises triable issues of fact about
Holt's constructive notice (see
Picaso v 345 E. 73 Owners Corp., 101 AD3d 511 [1st Dept 2012]; Burton v CW Equities, LLC,
97 AD3d 462, 462 [1st Dept 2012]). Defendants Brush and Pepsi also failed to
demonstrate that they neither created nor had actual or constructive notice of the
dangerous condition that caused plaintiff's injuries, since they do not point to any
probative evidence on these questions.

Insofar as the Labor Law § 241 (6) claim is based on a violation of Industrial
Code (12 NYCRR) § 23-1.7 (e) (1), it should be dismissed because the accident
occurred in an open working area, the evidence that workers traversed the plank to get
from the street to the job site notwithstanding (see Dalanna v City of New York,
308 AD2d 400, 401 [1st Dept 2003]). However, insofar as it based on a violation of 12
NYCRR 23-1.11 (a), the section 241 (6) claim should not be dismissed because
defendants failed to demonstrate that the accident was not caused by unsound or
defective lumber (see Purcell v
Metlife Inc., 108 AD3d 431, 432-433 [1st Dept 2013]).

Neither defendants nor defendant Ruttura is entitled to summary judgment on
defendants' contractual indemnification claim against Ruttura. The subcontract between
Holt and Ruttura broadly requires the latter to indemnify defendants for, inter alia, any
claims arising from or in connection with Ruttura's performance of the work. The
subcontract requires Ruttura to keep its work areas free of debris and unsafe conditions.
The accident occurred in an area of the exterior parking lot where Ruttura, the concrete
subcontractor, had graded the ground and reinforced it with rebar in preparation for
pouring concrete. Thus, plaintiff's accident may be connected with Ruttura's performance
of its work insofar as Ruttura may have failed to satisfy its contractual obligation to keep
this area clear of debris, such as the concededly hazardous planks. However, [*3]as indicated, issues of fact exist as to the extent of
defendants' liability for plaintiff's injuries (see Callan v Structure Tone, Inc., 52 AD3d 334, 335 [1st
Dept 2008]). Concur—Tom, J.P., Friedman, Saxe, Richter and Clark, JJ.
[Prior Case History: 2013 NY Slip Op 30000(U).]


