
	Kaleida Health v Univera Healthcare
	2014 NY Slip Op 01035 [114 AD3d 1238]
	February 14, 2014
	Appellate Division, Fourth Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Kaleida Health, Respondent,
v
Univera Healthcare,
Respondent, and Utica Mutual Insurance Company,
Appellant.


—[*1]



goldberg Segalla LLP, Buffalo (Paul D. McCormick of counsel), for
defendant-appellant.

Hodgson Russ LLP, Buffalo (Michelle L. Merola of counsel), for
plaintiff-respondent.

Hinman Straub P.C., Albany (James T. Potter of Counsel), for
defendant-respondent.



Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Erie County (Gerald J. Whalen, J.),
entered August 22, 2012. The judgment, among other things, denied the motion of
defendant Utica Mutual Insurance Company for summary judgment dismissing the
complaint and cross claim against it.

It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from is unanimously affirmed
without costs.

Memorandum: Defendant Utica Mutual Insurance Company (Utica) appeals from a
judgment denying its motion for summary judgment seeking dismissal of the complaint
and the cross claim against it, granting the motions for summary judgment of plaintiff
and defendant Univera Healthcare (Univera), and declaring that Utica is obligated to pay
an outstanding hospital bill to plaintiff pursuant to Public Health Law § 2807-c (1)
(b-2) for care that plaintiff provided to a certain patient who is now deceased. We reject
Utica's contention that plaintiff and Univera are barred by collateral estoppel from
asserting that Utica was obligated to pay the outstanding hospital bill as the result of a
determination of the Workers' Compensation Board. While collateral estoppel is
applicable to determinations of quasi-judicial administrative agencies, such as the
Workers' Compensation Board (see Auqui v Seven Thirty One Ltd. Partnership, 22 NY3d
246, 255 [2013]), plaintiff and Univera were not parties to and did not participate in
the subject administrative proceeding. Although plaintiff and Univera received notice of
the administrative proceeding, as a health care provider and private health insurer,
respectively, they could not by virtue of such notice be compelled to participate in the
proceeding (see Liss v Trans Auto Sys., 68 NY2d 15, 21 [1986]; see also
Workers' Compensation Law § 25 [3] [a]). Utica's further contention that this
action is barred because plaintiff was required to arbitrate this dispute is without merit
because "[a]n agreement to arbitrate is not a defense to an action" (Allied Bldg.
Inspectors Intl. Union of Operating Engrs., Local Union No. 211, AFL-CIO v Office of
Labor Relations of City of N.Y., 45 NY2d 735, 738 [1978]), and arbitration is not
compulsory here inasmuch as the value of the medical services provided are not in
dispute (see Workers' Compensation Law § 13-g [1]-[3]; 12 NYCRR
325-1.24 [d]). Finally, contrary to Utica's contention, we conclude that Supreme Court
properly determined that Utica was responsible for the outstanding hospital bill pursuant
to Public Health Law § 2807-c (1) (b-2) inasmuch as the subject patient's
admission to one of plaintiff's hospitals was not a separate or new hospital admission, but
was a continuation of that patient's earlier admission to another hospital, which was for
treatment of a long-standing work-related injury. Present—Smith, J.P., Peradotto,
Lindley, Sconiers and Valentino, JJ.


