
	Empire Ins. Co. v Miguel
	2014 NY Slip Op 01137 [114 AD3d 539]
	February 18, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Empire Insurance Company as Successor in Interest to
Allcity Insurance Company, Respondent,
v
Robert San Miguel, Defendant, and
Thomas McHenry, Appellant.


—[*1]



Loretta McHenry, Brooklyn, for appellant.

Dillon, Horowitz & Goldstein LLP, New York (Michael M. Horowitz of counsel),
for respondent.



Judgment, Supreme Court, New York County (Saliann Scarpulla, J.), entered June
11, 2013, which granted plaintiff Empire Insurance Company's motion for summary
judgment declaring that it had no obligation to defend or indemnify its insured,
defendant Robert San Miguel, in the underlying action, unanimously affirmed, without
costs. Appeal from order, same court and Justice, entered May 10, 2013, unanimously
dismissed, without costs, as subsumed in the appeal from the judgment.

The Empire policy states, in relevant part: "[o]ur obligation to defend any claim or
suit ends when the amount we pay for damages resulting from the occurrence equals our
limit of liability." The term "occurrence" is not ambiguous, as it refers to a "fortuitous
event," as opposed to an intended act (see Insurance Law § 1101;
Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y. v Allstate Ins. Co., 98 NY2d 208, 220 [2002]).
Further, the policy utilizes the terms "accident" and "occurrence" interchangeably, as it
states that "[a]ll 'bodily injury' and 'property damage' resulting from any one accident or
from continuous or repeated exposure to substantially the same general conditions shall
be considered to be the result of one occurrence." Reading the above sentence to include
an intentional assault with a metal pipe (the act at issue here) within the meaning of
"occurrence" would make no textual sense and would "run afoul of the 'cardinal rule of
construction that a court adopt an interpretation that renders no portion of the contract
meaningless' " (Kolmar Ams.,
Inc. v Bioversel Inc., 89 AD3d 493, 494 [1st Dept 2011]).

Although the injured party now argues, contrary to his pleadings and testimony
before the trial court, that the injuries he received from Empire's insured were the
unexpected result of an intended act, where the harm to the victim was inherent in the
nature of the act, courts have determined that there is no coverage, despite the fact that
the intention of the insured, allegedly, [*2]was not to
cause the harm (see Allstate Ins. Co. v Mugavero, 79 NY2d 153, 161 [1992]).
The insured testified in the underlying action that he intended to hit McHenry with a
metal pipe in order to "subdue" him. The fact that the injuries may have been more
extensive than San Miguel intended does not negate the fact that this was an intentional
assault.

The jury found that San Miguel did not act in self defense, and having tried the case
to verdict and there having been a judgment entered on the verdict, both McHenry and
Robert San Miguel are bound by the verdict that San Miguel engaged in an intentional
and unjustified assault of McHenry (see D'Arata v New York Cent. Mut. Fire Ins.
Co., 76 NY2d 659, 668 [1990]). Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P., Andrias, DeGrasse
and Clark, JJ. [Prior Case History: 2013 NY Slip Op 30702(U).]


