
	Matter of Giangualano (Birnbaum)
	2014 NY Slip Op 01032 [114 AD3d 1233]
	February 14, 2014
	Appellate Division, Fourth Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In the Matter of the Arbitration between Nicholas
Giangualano et al., Respondents, and Jay B. Birnbaum et al., as Cotrustees of Trust "B"
under the Last Will and Testament of Bernard B. Birnbaum, Deceased, Appellants.
(Action No. 1.) In the Matter of Jay B. Birnbaum et al., as Cotrustees of Trust "B" under
the Last Will and Testament of Bernard B. Birnbaum, Deceased,
Appellants,
v
Nicholas Giangualano et al., Respondents. (Action No. 2.) (Appeal
No. 1.) 


—[*1]



Lippes Mathias Wexler Friedman LLP, Buffalo (Dennis C. Vacco of counsel)
and Bond, Schoeneck & King, PLLC, Rochester, for respondents-appellants and
petitioners-appellants.

Augello & Matteliano, LLP, Buffalo (Joseph A. Matteliano of counsel), Attea &
Attea, North Boston and Freid and Klawon, Williamsville, for petitioners-respondents
and respondents-respondents.



Appeal from an order of the Supreme Court, Erie County (John A. Michalek, J.),
entered September 28, 2012. The order, among other things, granted
petitioner-respondent Nicholas Giangualano's motion to consolidate the proceeding
commenced by petitioners-respondents in Supreme Court, Erie County with the
proceeding commenced by respondents-petitioners in Surrogate's Court, Monroe County.

It is hereby ordered that the order so appealed from is unanimously affirmed without
costs.

Memorandum: In appeal No. 1, respondents-petitioners (respondents) appeal from an
order granting the motion of petitioner-respondent Nicholas Giangualano (petitioner) to
consolidate this proceeding, commenced by petitioners-respondents (petitioners) in
Supreme Court, Erie County (Supreme Court), to compel arbitration pursuant to CPLR
article 75, with a proceeding commenced by respondents in Surrogate's Court, Monroe
County (Surrogate's Court), and denying respondents' cross motion to consolidate the
proceedings in Surrogate's Court. In appeal No. 2, respondents appeal from an order that
denied their motion for leave to reargue and renew their cross motion to consolidate the
proceedings in Surrogate's Court. The appeal from the order in appeal No. 2 insofar as it
denied that part of respondents' motion seeking leave to reargue must be dismissed
because no appeal lies from an order denying leave to reargue (see Hill v Milan, 89 AD3d
1458, 1458 [2011]). Although the appeal from the order in appeal No. 2, insofar as it
denied that part of respondents' motion seeking leave to renew, is properly before us
(see Kirchmeyer v Subramanian, 167 AD2d 851, 851 [1990]), respondents fail to
raise any issues in their brief with respect to that order. We therefore deem abandoned
any contentions with respect that appeal (see New York Cent. Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v Glider Oil Co., Inc.,
90 AD3d 1638, 1640 [2011]; Ciesinski v Town of Aurora, 202 AD2d 984,
984 [1994]).

Respondents contend in appeal No. 1 that the court erred in consolidating the
proceedings in Supreme Court because Surrogate's Court has "preferred jurisdiction"
over the parties' disputes inasmuch as they involve a testamentary trust that arose out of
an estate probated by the Surrogate. We reject that contention.

The relevant legal principles are well settled. Actions may be consolidated when they
involve "a common question of law or fact" (CPLR 602 [a]). "Where an action is
pending in the supreme court it may, upon motion, remove to itself an action pending in
another court and consolidate it or have it tried together with that in the supreme court"
(CPLR 602 [b]). "A motion to consolidate is directed to the sound discretion of the court,
and the court is afforded wide latitude in the exercise thereof" (Flower City Interiors
v Rochester Gen. Hosp., 184 AD2d 998, 999 [1992]). A party opposing
consolidation of actions that involve common questions of law or fact must "demonstrate
prejudice to a substantial right" (Arnheim v Prozeralik, 191 AD2d 1026, 1026
[1993]).

Here, respondents failed to demonstrate substantial prejudice arising from
consolidation of the proceedings in Supreme Court. Although respondents reside in
Monroe County, we conclude that it will not be unduly burdensome for them to travel to
Erie County for trial. We note that the parties' disputes relate to real property located in
Erie County, respondents have counsel with an office in Erie County, and respondents
initially consented to jurisdiction in Supreme Court. Under the circumstances, it cannot
be said that the court abused its discretion in granting petitioner's motion for
consolidation.

Although respondents concede that Supreme Court and Surrogate's Court have
concurrent jurisdiction over the proceedings, they nevertheless contend in appeal No. 1
that Surrogate's Court has preferred jurisdiction because, " '[w]herever possible, all
litigation involving the property and funds of a decedent's estate should be disposed of in
the Surrogate's Court' " (Cipo v
Van Blerkom, 28 AD3d 602, 602 [2006]; see Nichols v Kruger, 113
AD2d 878, 878-879 [1985]; Hollander v Hollander, 42 AD2d 701, 701 [1973]).
We reject that contention as well. The prior involvement of the Surrogate occurred
decades ago, when the original tenant of the subject real property died. At that time, the
Surrogate probated the original tenant's will and disposed of all property and funds of the
estate. The current disputes—regarding the value of the subject real property and
whether petitioners are entitled to an award of back rent against respondents—are
only tangentially related to the administration of the trust set up by the original tenant's
will. Moreover, resolution of the parties' disputes does not require the interpretation of
the trust documents; instead, the disputes concern an interpretation of the parties' lease
and stand still agreement. We thus conclude that Supreme Court properly denied
respondents' cross motion to consolidate the proceedings in Surrogate's Court.
Present—Peradotto, J.P., Lindley, Sconiers and Valentino, JJ.


