
	Matter of Brothman v DiNapoli
	2014 NY Slip Op 01234 [114 AD3d 1072]
	February 20, 2014
	Appellate Division, Third Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In the Matter of Phillip Brothman,
Petitioner,
v
Thomas P. DiNapoli, as Comptroller of the State of New York, et
al., Respondents.


—[*1]

Hinman Straub, PC, Albany (David T. Luntz of counsel), for petitioner.

Eric T. Schneiderman, Attorney General, Albany (Kate H. Nepveu of counsel), for
respondents.



Peters, P.J. Proceeding pursuant to CPLR article 78 (transferred to this Court by
order of the Supreme Court, entered in Albany County) to review a determination of
respondent Comptroller which denied petitioner's application for retirement service
credit.

Petitioner, an attorney, provided legal services to the Evans-Brant Central School
District (commonly known as the Lake Shore Central School District) on a part-time
basis from 1969 until his retirement in 2006. Following a review of petitioner's
relationship with the school district, respondent Comptroller determined that petitioner
was an independent contractor and not an employee and, therefore, was not entitled to
membership in respondent New York State and Local Employees' Retirement System.
Following a hearing, a Hearing Officer determined that petitioner was an independent
contractor and, upon review, the Comptroller adopted the Hearing Officer's findings and
conclusions. Petitioner thereafter commenced this CPLR article 78 proceeding to
challenge the Comptroller's determination.

As we recently articulated, "[w]here professional services are involved, the absence
of direct control is not dispositive of the existence of an employer-employee relationship"
(Matter [*2]of Mowry v DiNapoli, 111 AD3d 1117, 1118
[2013]). "Rather, such an employment relationship may be evidenced by control over
important aspects of the services performed other than results or means" (id.
[internal quotation marks and citations omitted]). In other words, "over-all control is
sufficient to establish the employee relationship where [professional] work is concerned"
(id. [internal quotation marks and citations omitted]; see Matter of Empire State Towing
& Recovery Assn., Inc. [Commissioner of Labor], 15 NY3d 433, 437-438
[2010]). Upon our review, we fail to find substantial evidence to support the
Comptroller's determination that petitioner was an independent contractor and not an
employee of the school district.

Here, the school district's former superintendent, who worked with petitioner for
nearly four decades, testified that during his tenure he supervised all staff at the school
district, including petitioner. This witness testified further that petitioner was required to
attend all regular and special meetings as part of his employment. It was established that
petitioner's biweekly paycheck included withholdings for FICA, Medicare, and federal
and state income taxes. Petitioner also received health insurance benefits and participated
in a tax shelter annuity program that was available to employees of the school district.
Notably, although petitioner did not have set hours, both he and the former
superintendent testified that he was available on an as-needed basis, and that petitioner
would receive a paycheck for a pay period even if he did not perform work for the school
during that period. Moreover, petitioner was required to report to the Superintendent of
the school district, as well as the school district's Board of Education, and his work was
subject to approval by the Board. He was also reappointed every year at annual
reorganization meetings and took an oath of office annually. While petitioner used his
own law office and staff, the competent testimony established that he was provided with
school stationary and that, on occasion, he used school facilities and resources.

The Retirement System relied on the testimony of two Comptroller employees, the
Assistant Director of Member and Employer Services and an Associate Examiner of the
Division of Local Government and School Accountability, both of whom admitted that
they neither spoke with petitioner nor his former or current supervisors. While the
Retirement System also relied on information retrieved from current employees at the
school district's administrative offices, none of these employees testified at the hearing.
Moreover, the Associate Examiner did not recall reviewing any of the Board minutes
between 1969 and 2006 to determine anything related to petitioner's employment status
with the school. Indeed, the Retirement System failed to provide testimony from anyone
with direct knowledge regarding petitioner's engagement with the school district. Thus,
on this record, we cannot conclude that the Comptroller's determination is supported by
substantial evidence (see Matter of Mowry v DiNapoli, 111 AD3d at
1118-1119).

Stein, Rose and Egan Jr., JJ., concur. Adjudged that the determination is annulled,
without costs, petition granted and matter remitted to respondent Comptroller for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this Court's decision.


