
	Kelly v Glass House Dev., LLC
	2014 NY Slip Op 01404 [114 AD3d 623]
	February 27, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Mark Kelly, Respondent,
v
Glass House
Development, LLC, et al., Respondents, and Zapata Construction, Inc.,
Appellant/Third-Party Defendant/Second Third-Party Plaintiff-Appellant/Third
Third-Party Defendant-Appellant. Glass House Development, LLC, et al., Third-Party
Plaintiffs-Respondents, v County Glass & Metal Installers, Inc., et al., Third-Party
Defendants. Hi-Rise Carpentry Corp., Second Third-Party Defendant-Respondent.
Vendome Management, Inc., Third Third-Party Plaintiff-Respondent, v County Glass &
Metal Installers, Inc., et al., Third Third-Party Defendants.


—[*1]


Law Office of James J. Toomey, New York (Eric P. Tosca of counsel), for
appellant.

Sacks and Sacks, LLP, New York (Scott N. Singer of counsel), for Mark Kelly,
respondent.

[*2]Barry, McTiernan & Moore, New York (Laurel
A. Wedinger of counsel), for Glass House Development, LLC, Vendome Management,
Inc., and Pavarini McGovern, LLC, respondents.

Traub Lieberman Straus & Shrewsberry LLP, Hawthorne (Evan Rudnicki of
counsel), for Hi-Rise Carpentry Corp., respondent.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Richard F. Braun, J.), entered March 21,
2012, which, insofar as appealed from as limited by the briefs, denied the motion of
defendant/second third-party plaintiff Zapata Construction, Inc. (Zapata) for summary
judgment dismissing the complaint against it, and denied Zapata's motion for summary
judgment on its contractual indemnification claim against defendant/second third-party
defendant Hi-Rise Carpentry Corp. (Hi-Rise), unanimously affirmed, without costs.

Plaintiff alleges that while he was moving a large panel on a dolly toward the
perimeter of the ninth floor of the new building being constructed, he sustained injuries
when his entire leg got caught in an uncovered, rectangular hole in the floor, measuring
about three feet by two feet. The court properly denied Zapata's motion for summary
judgment based on the conflicting deposition testimony regarding Zapata's role in
ensuring that any open holes in the floors, which were used by various contractors on the
project, remained covered (see
Gallagher v Levien & Co., 72 AD3d 407 [1st Dept 2010]; O'Connor v
Lincoln Metrocenter Partners, 266 AD2d 60 [1st Dept 1999]). Two employees of a
nonparty subcontractor testified to the effect that this task was handled primarily by
Hi-Rise, pursuant to its subcontract with Zapata, whereas the general contractor's
highest-ranking employee who regularly worked on the site testified that Zapata itself,
rather than any of its subcontractors, was directly responsible for hole protection as of the
day of the accident.

The court properly denied Zapata's motion for summary judgment on its contractual
indemnification claim against Hi-Rise. The provision at issue requires Hi-Rise to
indemnify Zapata for injuries and damages incurred through the performance of the
subcontract, insofar as caused by an act or omission of Hi-Rise, but limited to the extent
of Hi-Rise's negligence. Zapata failed to establish its freedom from negligence (see
Correia v Professional Data Mgt., 259 AD2d 60, 65 [1st Dept 1999]), and there are
issues of fact regarding the extent to which the accident may be attributed to Hi-Rise.
Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P., Acosta, Renwick, Freedman and Manzanet-Daniels, JJ.


