
	Xi Mei Jia v Intelli-Tec Sec. Servs., Inc.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01384 [114 AD3d 607]
	February 27, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Xi Mei Jia, as Administrator of the Estate of Marty L.
McMillan, Deceased, Respondent-Appellant,
v
Intelli-Tec Security Services,
Inc., et al., Appellants-Respondents, et al., Defendant.


—[*1]


Robinson & Cole LLP, New York (Joseph L. Clasen of counsel), for
appellants-respondents.

Law Offices of Sandra Gale Behrle, New York (Sandra Gale Behrle of counsel), for
respondent-appellant.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Eileen A. Rakower, J.), entered
September 27, 2013, which granted defendants-appellants Intelli-Tec Security Services,
Inc. and Russell R. MacDonnell's motion to dismiss the complaint to the extent of
dismissing the fraud claim and denied so much of the motion as sought dismissal of the
breach of contract claim, unanimously modified, on the law, to grant the motion as to the
breach of contract claim, and otherwise affirmed, without costs. The Clerk is directed to
enter judgment dismissing the complaint as against defendants-appellants.

By letter agreement, dated December 21, 2010, Intelli-Tec Security Services, Inc., an
S corporation in which decedent Marty McMillan was a shareholder, redeemed the
shares held by the estate in exchange for $400,000, which sale was made "free and clear
of any and all . . . rights" (¶ 1). The agreement contained a merger
clause which stated that it "supersedes any prior understanding, agreements or
representations by and between the parties . . . with respect to the subject
matter hereto" (¶ 5).

Plaintiff's first cause of action alleges that defendants breached their contract with
her husband by failing to reimburse the estate for the tax liability it incurred as a
shareholder of Intelli-Tec. The second cause of action seeks to set aside the letter
agreement based upon defendants' alleged promise to enter into a separate agreement to
cover the tax liabilities relating to the estate's ownership of the stock, which promise was
alleged to be knowingly false when made and relied upon by plaintiff.

Intelli-Tec and MacDonnell were entitled to dismissal of the complaint as the
documentary evidence flatly contradicts both causes of action (see CPLR 3211
[a] [1]; Maas v Cornell Univ., 94 NY2d 87 [1999]). The alleged agreement to
reimburse the estate for tax liabilities arises from the estate's status as a shareholder.
Thus, any such agreement was [*2]extinguished when the
estate sold its shares free and clear of all other rights and would have been superseded
pursuant to the letter agreement's merger clause. Additionally, plaintiff's representation in
the merger clause forecloses her reliance upon any representation not contained in the
letter agreement and cannot serve as a basis for her fraud claim (see Citibank v
Plapinger, 66 NY2d 90, 94-95 [1985]). Concur—Tom, J.P., Friedman, Saxe,
Richter and Clark, JJ.


