
	National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, Pa. v TransCanada
Energy USA, Inc.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01283 [114 AD3d 595]
	February 25, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, et al., Appellants, et al., Plaintiff,
v
TransCanada Energy USA,
Inc., et al., Respondents. TC Ravenswood, LLC, Respondent, v National Union Fire
Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Also Known as AIG, Now Known as
Chartis, et al., Appellants, et al., Defendant.


—[*1]


Foran Glennon Palandech Ponzi & Rudloff PC, New York (Malcolm J. Reilly
of counsel), for National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
ACE INA Insurance and Arch Insurance Company, appellants.

Podvey, Meanor, Catenacci, Hildner, Cocoziello & Chattman P.C., New York
(Robert K. Scheinbaum of counsel), for Factory Mutual Insurance Company, appellant.

Anderson Kill P.C., New York (John M. O'Connor of counsel), for
respondents.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Barbara Jaffe, J.), entered August 19,
2013, which, inter alia, upon cross motions to confirm and to reject the special referee's
finding that any documents that pre-date the rejection by National Union Fire Insurance
Company of [*2]Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, ACE INA
Insurance, Arch Insurance Company (the market insurers), and Factory Mutual Insurance
Company (with the market insurers, the insurance companies) of TransCanada Energy
USA, Inc., TC Ravenswood Services Corp., and TC Ravenswood, LLC's (TransCanada)
claims are not protected from disclosure, and a motion for a protective order, ordered the
insurance companies to produce to TransCanada all the documents except certain
specified ones, unanimously affirmed, with costs.

The motion court properly found that the majority of the documents sought to be
withheld are not protected by the attorney-client privilege or the work product doctrine or
as materials prepared in anticipation of litigation. The record shows that the insurance
companies retained counsel to provide a coverage opinion, i.e., an opinion as to whether
the insurance companies should pay or deny the claims. Documents prepared in the
ordinary course of an insurer's investigation of whether to pay or deny a claim are not
privileged, and do not become so " 'merely because [the] investigation was conducted by
an attorney' " (see Brooklyn
Union Gas Co. v American Home Assur. Co., 23 AD3d 190, 191 [1st Dept
2005]).

The common interest exception to waiver of the attorney-client privilege by
disclosure is not applicable, since there was no pending or reasonably anticipated
litigation in which the insurance companies had a common legal interest (see Aetna
Cas. & Sur. Co. v Certain Underwriters at Lloyd's, London, 176 Misc 2d 605, 612
[Sup Ct, NY County 1998], affd 263 AD2d 367 [1st Dept 1999], lv
dismissed 94 NY2d 875 [2000]).

The insurers' argument that they actually denied TransCanada's claims before the
date identified in the motion court's order, and that therefore any documents prepared
after that date are protected attorney work product, is a factual argument improperly
raised for the first time on appeal. Concur—Sweeny, J.P., Moskowitz, DeGrasse
and Gische, JJ. [Prior Case History: 40 Misc 3d 703.]


[Recalled and vacated, see 
119 AD3d 492.]


