
	People v LaBoy
	2014 NY Slip Op 01049 [114 AD3d 1254]
	February 14, 2014
	Appellate Division, Fourth Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	The People of the State of New York,
Respondent,
v
Juan A. LaBoy, Appellant.


—[*1]


Leanne Lapp, Public Defender, Canandaigua, the Abbatoy Law Firm, PLLC,
Rochester (David M. Abbatoy, Jr., of Counsel), for defendant-appellant.

R. Michael Tantillo, District Attorney, Canandaigua (James B. Ritts of Counsel), for
respondent.



Appeal from a judgment of the Ontario County Court (Frederick G. Reed, A.J.),
rendered February 25, 2011. The judgment convicted defendant, upon a jury verdict, of
assault in the second degree, obstructing governmental administration in the second
degree and resisting arrest.

It is hereby ordered that the judgment so appealed from is unanimously reversed as a
matter of discretion in the interest of justice and on the law, and the indictment is
dismissed and the matter is remitted to Ontario County Court for proceedings pursuant to
CPL 470.45.

Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a judgment convicting him upon a jury
verdict of assault in the second degree (Penal Law § 120.05 [former (3)]),
obstructing governmental administration in the second degree (§ 195.05), and
resisting arrest (§ 205.30). The conviction arises out of an altercation with a
sheriff's deputy who responded to defendant's home in connection with a dispatch for
possible family trouble. Earlier that day, other sheriff's deputies had responded to
defendant's home and in his absence obtained an information signed by the complainant,
alleging that defendant committed harassment in the second degree. When the deputy
responded later that day, she had knowledge that there was a signed information charging
the violation of harassment in the second degree, that defendant caused red marks on the
complainant's hand or arms, that the information had not been entered in court, and that
there was no warrant for defendant's arrest. The complainant was present but, because of
a language barrier, she was able to communicate to the deputy only that defendant was
inside the house and in a certain room behind a door. The deputy entered the
room with her gun drawn and told defendant multiple times to get out of bed and that he
was under arrest. Thereafter, an altercation between defendant and the deputy
ensued in which defendant head-butted the deputy, causing a welt on her head and
bruising.

Defendant contends that the evidence is legally insufficient to support the conviction.
Although defendant preserved that contention for our review only with respect to the
charges of obstructing governmental administration and resisting arrest (see People v
Gray, 86 NY2d 10, 19 [1995]), we exercise our power to review defendant's
contention with respect to the charge of assault in the second degree as well, as a matter
of discretion in the interest of justice (see CPL 470.15 [6] [a]). We conclude that
the evidence is legally insufficient to establish that the deputy's arrest of defendant was
lawful inasmuch as the deputy lacked reasonable cause to believe that defendant
committed an offense in her presence (see CPL 140.10 [1] [a]). Because the
arrest was not authorized at its inception, the evidence is legally insufficient to support
the conviction of assault, obstructing governmental administration, and resisting arrest
(see People v Perez, 47
AD3d 1192, 1192-1194 [2008]), and reversal therefore is required. In view of our
decision, we need not address defendant's remaining contentions. Present—Smith,
J.P., Peradotto, Lindley, Valentino and Whalen, JJ.


