
	TBA Global, LLC v Proscenium Events, LLC
	2014 NY Slip Op 01266 [114 AD3d 571]
	February 25, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	TBA Global, LLC, Appellant,
v
Proscenium
Events, LLC, et al., Respondents.


—[*1]


Crowell & Moring LLP, New York (Jeffrey W. Pagano of counsel), for
appellant.

Kaiser Saurborn & Mair, P.C., New York (David N. Mair of counsel), for
Proscenium Events, LLC, Mark Shearon, Chuck Santoro and James Cavanaugh,
respondents.

Meltzer, Lippe, Goldstein & Breitstone, LLP, Mineola (Michael H. Masri of
counsel), for Trade Show Fabrications, Inc. and Ronald Suissa, respondents.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Melvin L. Schweitzer, J.), entered on or
about April 9, 2013, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the briefs, granted a
motion by defendants Mark Shearon, Chuck Santoro and James Cavanaugh for partial
summary judgment to the extent of finding that certain restrictive covenants consisting of
postemployment nonsolicitation agreements between plaintiff and each of the moving
defendants are unenforceable, and denied plaintiff's motion to compel discovery,
unanimously modified, on the law, the motion for partial summary judgment denied, and
otherwise affirmed, without costs.

Shearon's nonsolicitation agreement with plaintiff provided that for a period of two
years after the termination of his employment with plaintiff he was not to "directly or
indirectly, communicate with clients or customers of [plaintiff] or pursue business
relationships developed while employed by [plaintiff]" except for exclusions that are not
relevant to this appeal. The nonsolicitation agreements entered into by Santoro and
Cavenaugh provided that during their one-year postemployment nonsolicitation periods
neither respective employee was to "directly or indirectly communicate with the clients or
prospective clients of [plaintiff] that" each "had personal contact with while employed by
[plaintiff]." Defendants moved for partial summary judgment to the extent of a
determination that the subject nonsolicitation agreements are overbroad and
unenforceable. By their own terms, all of the nonsolicitation agreements were to be
governed by and construed in accordance with Delaware law. Nonetheless, the parties
differ as to whether New York law or Delaware law should be applied.

In light of the parties' disagreement as to which state's law should apply, our first step
is to determine whether there is an actual conflict between the laws of the jurisdictions
involved (see Matter of Allstate Ins. Co. [Stolarz—New Jersey Mfrs. Ins.
Co.], 81 NY2d 219, 223 [1993]). For an actual conflict to exist, "the laws in question
must provide different substantive rules in each jurisdiction that are 'relevant' to the issue
at hand and have a 'significant possible effect on the outcome of the trial' " (Elmaliach v Bank of China
Ltd., 110 AD3d 192, 200 [1st Dept [*2]2013]).
Under New York law, an employee's noncompetition agreement is reasonable and,
therefore, enforceable "only if it: (1) is no greater than is required for the
protection of the legitimate interest of the employer, (2) does not impose undue
hardship on the employee, and (3) is not injurious to the public" (BDO Seidman v
Hirshberg, 93 NY2d 382, 388-389 [1999]). The parties' briefs disclose no conflict of
laws that would have a " 'significant possible effect on the outcome of the trial' " (see
Elmaliach, 110 AD3d at 200 [emphasis omitted]). To be sure, the moving defendants
argued before the motion court that "Delaware law does not differ significantly from
New York law as to the test for enforceability" and that applying New York law "should
not make a material difference to the outcome" of the case. Thus, we apply the law of
New York, the forum state (see
Excess Ins. Co. v Factory Mut. Ins. Co., 2 AD3d 150, 151 [1st Dept 2003],
affd 3 NY3d 577 [2004]).

The motion court erred in granting partial summary judgment based on its finding
that the nonsolicitation covenants are unenforceable. Contrary to the motion court's
determination, the restrictions imposed are no greater than required to protect TBA's
legitimate interests which include the protection of client relationships (see BDO
Seidman, 93 NY2d at 388; Reed, Roberts Assoc. v Strauman, 40 NY2d 303,
307-308 [1976]; Crown IT
Servs., Inc. v Koval-Olsen, 11 AD3d 263, 264 [1st Dept 2004]). The purported
preexisting relationship between Santoro and T-Mobile, one of the customers allegedly
improperly solicited by defendants, does not establish that such a relationship existed
between any of the moving defendants and the other TBA clients alleged to have been
improperly solicited. Thus, summary judgment was improperly granted since TBA is not
precluded from seeking to enforce the nonsolicitation covenants for the purpose of
protecting its customer relationships and goodwill.

Further, the motion court incorrectly found that there is no evidence that defendants
misappropriated or used plaintiff's customer lists or trade secrets. To the contrary,
plaintiff has proffered evidence that the moving defendants, who had intimate knowledge
of TBA's intellectual property and financial information, misappropriated and misused
TBA's trade secrets and intellectual property in connection with their solicitation of
clients. The record contains evidence that Shearon regularly forwarded to his personal
email account confidential and proprietary TBA pricing and customer information,
including internal TBA reports detailing comprehensive information about TBA
customers such as revenue figures, project pricing and the status of projects, and also
took proprietary documents pertaining to TBA's work on Walmart, including proposal
and pitch materials. Thus, at a minimum, there are issues of fact with respect to whether
the moving defendants breached the restrictive covenants (see Ashland Mgt. Inc. v Altair
Invs. NA, LLC, 59 AD3d 97, 102 [1st Dept 2008], mod on other grounds
14 NY3d 774 [2010]).
[*3]
With respect to the denial of TBA's motion to
compel discovery, the court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that TBA must
provide further disclosure to defendants concerning its customers and damages before
obtaining the relief requested. Concur—Sweeny, J.P., Moskowitz, Renwick,
DeGrasse and Gische, JJ. [Prior Case History: 2013 NY Slip Op 30938(U).]


