
	Assured Guar. Mun. Corp. v DLJ Mtge. Capital, Inc.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01375 [114 AD3d 598]
	February 27, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department


a
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., Formerly Known as
Financial Security Assurance Inc., et al., Appellants,
v
DLJ Mortgage Capital,
Inc., Respondent, et al., Defendant.


—[*1]


Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, LLP, New York (Philippe Z. Selendy of
counsel), for appellants.

Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, New York (Barry S. Levin of counsel), for
respondent.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Shirley Werner Kornreich, J.), entered
October 12, 2012, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the briefs, granted
defendant DLJ Mortgage Capital, Inc.'s motion to dismiss so much of the complaint's
first and second causes of action as demand rescissory damages, consequential damages
and fees, based on its determination that plaintiffs' remedies are limited by the pooling
and servicing agreement's "sole remedy" clause, unanimously reversed, on the law,
without costs, and the first and second causes of action reinstated in their entirety.

The motion court erred in holding that, as a matter of law, the remedy available to
plaintiff monoline insurers for breach of defendant's representations and warranties under
the pooling and servicing agreement is limited to cure of the breach or the substitution or
repurchase of the particular securitized loan. While their remedy, as certificate insurer,
for breach of other provisions of the agreement is so limited (e.g. § 2.02
[b] [governing mortgage documentation]), the certificate insurer is not one of the parties
affected by the "sole remedy" clause of the representations and warranties provision
(§ 2.03 [c]).

As the Court of Appeals has observed, "The best evidence of what parties to a
written agreement intend is what they say in their writing" (Slamow v Del Col,
79 NY2d 1016, 1018 [1992]). Where, as here, a contract is the result of negotiations
between sophisticated business entities assisted by experienced counsel, failure to
include a particular party, here the certificate insurer, among those governed by a
contract provision can only be construed as the intentional exclusion of that party from
its application (see Matter of
New York City Asbestos Litig., 41 AD3d 299, 302 [1st Dept 2007]). Nor are
plaintiffs' remedies restricted by section 13.01 of the agreement, comprising merely
acknowledgment of the certificate insurer's right to exercise the rights of the certificate
holders without their further consent.
[*2]
In view of this disposition, it is unnecessary to
reach plaintiffs' alternative argument that the sole remedy clause does not apply to their
claim for breach of defendant's obligation to repurchase certain mortgages.
Concur—Tom, J.P., Saxe, Moskowitz, Gische and Clark, JJ. [Prior Case
History: 37 Misc 3d 1212(A), 2012 NY Slip Op 52001(U).]


[Recalled and vacated, see 117 AD3d 450.]


