
	Matter of Brianna R. (Maribel R.)
	2014 NY Slip Op 01410 [115 AD3d 403]
	March 4, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, April 30, 2014






	In the Matter of Brianna R., a Child Alleged to be
Neglected. Maribel R., Appellant; Administration for Children's Services,
Respondent.


—[*1]



Andrew J. Baer, New York, for appellant.

Michael A. Cardozo, Corporation Counsel, New York (Michael J. Pastor of counsel),
for respondent.

Tamara A. Steckler, The Legal Aid Society, New York (John A. Newbery of
counsel), attorney for the child.



Order, Family Court, Bronx County (Gayle P. Roberts, J.), entered on or about
October 15, 2012, which, after a fact-finding hearing, found that respondent mother
neglected the subject child by failing to provide for her educational needs and by failing
to provide her with adequate guardianship, reversed, on the law and the facts, without
costs, the finding of neglect vacated, and the petition dismissed. Appeal from order of
disposition, same court and Judge, entered on or about November 9, 2012, which
released the subject child to respondent mother with petitioner agency's supervision for
up to six months, dismissed, without costs, as academic.

Petitioner Administration for Children's Services (ACS) failed to establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the 15-year-old child was educationally neglected
(Family Ct Act §§ 1012 [f]; 1046 [b] [1]). Although the child had an
excessive amount of absences from school, such absences "do[ ] not, ipso facto, establish
either the parental misconduct or the harm or potential harm to the child necessary to a
finding of [educational] neglect under Family Ct Act § 1012 (f) (i) (A)"
(Matter of Giancarlo P., 306 AD2d 28, 28 [1st Dept 2003]). Here, the record
shows that the mother faced obstacles in getting the child to attend school on a regular
basis. The mother took the child to school for a period of time, but she was financially
unable to escort the child to school on an ongoing basis.[FN*]

 Moreover, even when the child was present, she had a [*2]history of truancy, tardiness, leaving school early and
loitering in the hallways.

The record further demonstrates that the child was defiant, violent, and had a history
of lying and threatening to harm herself when the mother did not allow her to do what
she wanted. The child also suffered from mood disorder, and had continuous
hallucinations that made sleep difficult. The child was eventually hospitalized, and was
given a number of psychiatric diagnoses. As a result, she was prescribed medication that
caused her to be drowsy and disoriented, which further exacerbated her unwillingness
and inability to attend school.

Under the circumstances, the mother was unable to control the child and, despite her
best efforts, struggled to get the child to attend school regularly, as well as to her therapy
and drug treatment appointments (see Matter of Shanae F., 61 AD3d 403 [1st Dept 2009]; Matter of Alexander D., 45
AD3d 264 [1st Dept 2007]; see also Education Law § 3212 [requiring
every parent to send his or her school-age child to school, while specifically exempting
from compliance any parent whose child is beyond his or her ability to control]). Here, as
we found in Matter of Giancarlo P. and Matter of Shanae F., we find that
the mother exercised the minimum degree of care that section 1012 (f) (i) of the Family
Court Act requires. Indeed, despite the many obstacles the mother faced, she took steps
to ensure that the child attended school. For example, the mother explored the possibility
of transferring the child to a school closer to her home in the Bronx and spoke with
school personnel over the phone many times about the child's attendance. Thus, the
record shows that any impairment the child suffered was as a result of her various
psychiatric and behavioral issues, rather than the mother's failure to compel her to attend
school.

Significantly, neither the dissent nor ACS acknowledges that ACS itself could not
control the child when she was in its custody. Indeed, from November 18, 2011 to
February 14, 2012, it is undisputed that while the child was in ACS' custody, she
absconded and failed to attend school. Similarly, the child's school had difficulty
maintaining control of her. As noted above, the child frequently left school early even
when she did attend. Thus, the evidence shows that not only was the child beyond the
control of the mother, but was also beyond the control of ACS and the school.

The cases upon which the dissent relies are factually distinguishable. Contrary to
ACS' and the dissent's characterizations, we based our neglect findings in those cases on
more than school absences alone. For example, in Matter of Kaila A. (Reginald A.—Lovely A.) (95 AD3d
421, 421 [1st Dept 2012]), this Court held that, in addition to the school absences,
the "respondent had neglected the child by committing acts of domestic violence against
the child's mother in the child's presence." Similarly, in Matter of Aliyah B. (Denise J.)
(87 AD3d 943, 943 [1st Dept 2011]), this Court held that, the "mother neglected her
children by committing acts of domestic violence against the children's father in the
children's presence."

Regarding that part of the court's finding of neglect based upon a 15th birthday party
that the mother hosted for the child, at which the police discovered empty beer
containers, there was no evidence that the child had consumed alcohol that night. To the
contrary, the child denied consuming alcohol because she was taking her medication.
Thus, any finding of neglect based upon that incident is speculative. To be sure, although
the mother exercised poor judgment when [*3]she
decided to host the party, the record contains no evidence that the child's physical, mental
or emotional condition was impaired or was in imminent danger of becoming impaired as
a result of this one isolated incident (see Matter of Pria J.L. [Sharon L.], 102 AD3d 576 [1st
Dept 2013]).

In view of the foregoing, the appeal from the order of disposition has been rendered
academic (see Matter of Shaun
B., 55 AD3d 301, 302 [1st Dept 2008], lv denied 11 NY3d 715 [2009]).

Concur—Acosta, Moskowitz and Clark, JJ.

Sweeny, J.P., and Saxe, J., dissent in a memorandum by Sweeny, J.P., as follows:
The evidence adduced before the Family Court clearly established, by a preponderance of
the evidence, that Brianna is a neglected child (Family Ct Act § 1012 [f] [i] [A]).

The unrefuted testimony shows that Brianna was absent from school 83 days during
the 2009-2010 school year, and absent 63 days and late five days during the first half of
the 2010-2011 school year. It is also unrefuted that her excessive absenteeism resulted in
her abysmal academic performance. This is more than sufficient to establish a case of
educational neglect (Matter of Ember R., 285 AD2d 757, 758 [3d Dept 2001],
lv denied 97 NY2d 604 [2001]). To refute this, respondent had to show that she
exercised a minimum degree of care so as not to impose a risk of impairment to the child
or place the child in imminent danger of impairment (Matter of Dyandria D., 303
AD2d 233 [1st Dept 2003]).

The cases cited by the majority in support of its position are inapposite to the facts
and circumstances of this case. The majority properly cites Matter of Giancarlo P.
(306 AD2d 28, 28 [1st Dept 2003]) for the proposition that "prolonged, unexcused
absence from school does not, ipso facto, establish either the parental misconduct or the
harm or potential harm to the child" (id.). However, in Giancarlo, we also
made a specific finding that respondent parent "was actively engaged with school
authorities in the process of securing an appropriate and specific special education
placement for the child, and there is no evidence that the child's education was adversely
affected by his absence from school" (id. at 28-29), two critical factors which are
clearly missing here.

Nor does Matter of Shanae
F. (61 AD3d 403 [1st Dept 2009]) support the majority's position. In
Shanae, the unrefuted evidence demonstrated that respondent parent actively
"sought to address the reason for the child's absences from school, which was the child's
concern about a member of the school's administration, by having the child transferred to
a different school," which attempts "were frustrated by the school's failure to assist her in
that regard" (id. at 404). There is no evidence here that school and social services
personnel did anything but attempt to bring Brianna's absenteeism to respondent's
attention and try to offer solutions to this problem.

Likewise, Matter of
Alexander D. (45 AD3d 264 [1st Dept 2007]) is factually distinguishable from
this case. Alexander involved a 10-year-old autistic child with unexcused
absences from school. However, unlike here, "respondent mother was actively engaged
in 'securing an appropriate and specific special education placement for the child, and
there is no evidence that the child's education was adversely affected by his absence from
school' " (id., quoting Matter of Giancarlo P., 306 AD2d 28, 28-29
[2003]).

In this case, respondent made occasional, feeble attempts to ensure that Brianna
attended school. These attempts, when viewed objectively in context with Brianna's other
behavioral [*4]problems, fell far short of the minimum
degree of care required by statute (Family Ct Act § 1012 [f] [i]). It is
uncontroverted that Brianna's education was adversely affected by her absence from
school, as she was failing all subjects. Although respondent denied that she was
repeatedly advised of Brianna's absences and tardiness, and that she only received two
letters and no phone calls from school officials, the record clearly demonstrates
otherwise. There was testimony from Brianna's school attendance officer that she sent at
least 20 letters and made 50 phone calls to respondent in an effort to enlist her to get
Brianna to school. Both the attendance officer and the ACS caseworker testified that they
told respondent she should accompany Brianna to school. During the approximate three
week time period that respondent did this, Brianna attended school. Respondent's
self-serving testimony that she did not have a MetroCard and therefore could not
continue to take Brianna to school is unsupported by any financial or other proof. In fact,
the court found respondent's explanation of, and her attempts to downplay the extent of,
Brianna's absences "completely unbelievable and lacking in any credibility." The record
is replete with numerous other examples where the court found respondent to be less than
candid, and it more than adequately supports that finding.

Of particular note is the fact that, in cases involving fewer absences and tardiness,
coupled with inadequate parental explanations for such behavior, we found that a
preponderance of the evidence supported a finding of educational neglect (see e.g. Matter of Kaila A.
[Reginald A.—Lovely A.], 95 AD3d 421, 421 [1st Dept 2012] [59
missed days of school in a two-year period]; Matter of Aliyah B. [Denise J.], 87 AD3d 943, 943-944
[1st Dept 2011] [64 out of 181 missed days and 38 late days in one school year]; Matter of Annalize P. [Angie
D.], 78 AD3d 413, 414 [1st Dept 2010] [five excused, 24 unexcused absences
in one school year]). In each of these cases, we specifically found no reason to disturb the
Family Court's credibility determinations.

The majority's rejection of the Family Court's evaluation of the evidence and
credibility of the witnesses finds no support in the record. "In a matter which turns almost
entirely on assessments of the credibility of the witnesses and particularly on the
assessment of the character and temperament of the parent, the findings of the nisi prius
court must be accorded the greatest respect" (Matter of Irene O., 38 NY2d 776,
777 [1975]). While we certainly are not bound to slavishly follow the Family Court's
factual determinations and resolutions of the credibility of witnesses, such findings "are
to be accorded great deference from this Court and should not be disturbed unless clearly
unsupported by the record" (Matter of Emily PP., 274 AD2d 681, 683 [3d Dept
2000]; Matter of Irene O., 38 NY2d at 777; Matter of Danny R., 60 AD3d 450 [1st Dept 2009]).

In this regard, the majority's rejection of Family Court's findings with respect to a
15th birthday party hosted by respondent is puzzling. Respondent admitted that she was
the only adult present; that the party was scheduled to start at midnight and end at 2:00
a.m.; and that approximately 30 people were present, all of whom were under the age of
21. The police officer who testified at the hearing stated that at approximately 3:20 a.m.
on the date of the party, he responded to respondent's apartment building on a call of
"shots fired." Upon arrival, he found a male who had reportedly been attending a party
and had been shot in the eye outside the building. The officer went to respondent's
apartment where he was advised the party was taking place and found approximately 50
children, most of whom appeared intoxicated. He interviewed most of those present and
found them to be between the ages of 14-18 years old. Most of the children interviewed
by the officer had strong smells of alcohol on their breath, exhibited slurred speech and
admitted that they had been drinking alcohol. He recalled finding a large trash container
[*5]filled with empty beer containers in the apartment.
While he recalled seeing Brianna in the apartment, he did not speak to her and she did
not appear to be intoxicated.

Although the majority correctly notes that "there was no evidence that the child
[Brianna] had consumed alcohol that night," it concludes that "any finding of neglect
based upon that incident is speculative." This misreads Family Court's decision. The
court found only that this incident established that "[r]espondent failed to provide
Brianna with adequate supervision or guardianship under FCA § 1012." The
finding of neglect by Family Court was based upon the entire record, not simply the
drinking incident. These findings are far from "speculative." Notably, given Brianna's
acknowledged mental and emotional issues, it is beyond cavil that this incident placed
her "in imminent danger of becoming impaired as a result of the failure of [her] parent
. . . to exercise a minimum degree of care." (Family Ct Act § 1012 [f]
[i].)

There is no question that Brianna has a number of mental and behavioral issues
which require serious attention.[FN*]

 Family Court's dispositional order recognized both Brianna's issues and respondent's
need of assistance in dealing with them by paroling Brianna back to respondent under
agency supervision. Such disposition is consistent with Family Court Act § 1012
(f) (i)'s requirement that a court "focus on serious harm or potential harm to the child, not
just on what might be deemed undesirable parental behavior" (Nicholson v Scoppetta, 3
NY3d 357, 369 [2004]). That is precisely what Family Court did here. The
fact-finding decision and dispositional order should therefore be affirmed.


Footnotes




Footnote *: As the mother points
out, while the Family Court faulted her for not providing information about her income
or finances in support of her claim that she could no longer continue escorting the child
to school, the court found at the same time that the mother was indigent in this
proceeding. Thus, the court must have had some evidence of the mother's financial
status. We note that the dissent adopts this argument, opining that the mother presented
"self-serving" testimony about not having a MetroCard. 



Footnote *: With respect to
Brianna's behavioral issues, it is interesting to note that the presentment agency brought a
Family Court Act article 10 petition for neglect rather than an article 7 petition against
Brianna as a person in need of supervision.




