
	Forseth v Ohel Children's Home & Family Servs., Inc.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01148 [114 AD3d 825]
	February 19, 2014
	Appellate Division, Second Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	Robert J. Forseth et al., Appellants,
v
Ohel
Children's Home and Family Services, Inc., et al.,
Respondents.


—[*1]


Joseph N. Di Grazia, Brooklyn, N.Y. (Louis R. Lombardi of counsel), for
appellants.

Marshall, Conway & Bradley, P.C., New York, N.Y. (Marci D. Mitkoff of counsel),
for respondent Ohel Children's Home and Family Services, Inc.

Cascone & Kluepfel, LLP, Garden City, N.Y. (Kimberly Von Arx of counsel), for
respondents EBC Contractors, Inc., and EBCO Contracting, Inc.



In an action to recover damages for personal injuries, etc., the plaintiffs appeal, as
limited by their brief, from (1) so much of an order of the Supreme Court, Kings County
(Rothenberg, J.), dated January 26, 2012, as granted those branches of the motion of the
defendants EBC Contractors, Inc., and EBCO Contracting, Inc., and the separate motion
of the defendant Ohel Children's Home and Family Services, Inc., which were for
summary judgment dismissing the first, third, and fifth causes of action insofar as
asserted against each of them, and (2) so much of a judgment of the same court dated
February 23, 2012, as, upon the order, is in favor of the defendants EBC Contractors,
Inc., EBCO Contracting, Inc., and Ohel Children's Home and Family Services, Inc.,
dismissing the first, third, and fifth causes of action insofar as asserted against each of
them.

Ordered that the appeal from the order is dismissed; and it is further,

Ordered that the judgment is reversed insofar as appealed from, on the law, those
branches of the motion of the defendants EBC Contractors, Inc., and EBCO Contracting,
Inc., and the separate motion of the defendant Ohel Children's Home and Family
Services, Inc., which were for summary judgment dismissing the first, third, and fifth
causes of action insofar as asserted against each of them are denied, the first, third, and
fifth causes of action are reinstated insofar as asserted against the defendants EBC
Contractors, Inc., EBCO Contracting, Inc., and Ohel Children's Home and Family
Services, Inc., and the order is modified accordingly; and it is further,

Ordered that one bill of costs is awarded to the plaintiffs, payable by the defendants
appearing separately and filing separate briefs.

The appeal from the order must be dismissed because the right of direct appeal
therefrom terminated with the entry of judgment in the action (see Matter of Aho,
39 NY2d 241, 248 [1976]). The issues raised on the appeal from the order are brought up
for review and have been [*2]considered on the appeal
from the judgment (see CPLR 5501 [a] [1]).

While working in an office building, the plaintiff Robert J. Forseth (hereinafter the
injured plaintiff), allegedly sustained severe hearing loss when he was subjected to
dangerously loud noise from demolition work contracted for by the defendant Ohel
Children's Home and Family Services, Inc. (hereinafter Ohel), the owner of a portion of
the building in which the injured plaintiff worked, and performed by the defendants EBC
Contractors, Inc., and EBCO Contracting, Inc. (hereinafter together the contractors). The
injured plaintiff, and his wife suing derivatively, commenced this action against Ohel and
the contractors alleging, inter alia, negligence.

After discovery, the contractors moved, and Ohel separately moved, for summary
judgment dismissing the complaint insofar as asserted against each of them. The
Supreme Court granted the motions and entered a judgment, inter alia, dismissing the
complaint. The plaintiffs appeal from so much of the judgment as dismissed the causes of
action to recover damages for negligence.

The contractors failed to establish that they did not owe the injured plaintiff a duty of
care. Specifically, they failed to establish that, in performing their contractual obligations
to Ohel, they did not, by allegedly producing excessive construction noise, launch a
"force or instrument of harm" (Moch Co. v Rensselaer Water Co., 247 NY 160,
168 [1928]; see Robles v
Bruhns, 99 AD3d 980, 981-982 [2012]; Martin v Huang, 85 AD3d 1132, 1133 [2011]). The
contractors did, however, submit evidence that established, prima facie, that their
performance of the demolition work did not cause the injured plaintiff's severe hearing
loss. In opposition, the plaintiffs raised a triable issue of fact on the element of causation.
The plaintiffs submitted the affirmation of the injured plaintiff's physician, who
examined him two days after the incident and opined, with a reasonable degree of
medical certainty, that his drastic loss of hearing was in response to a loud acoustical
event (see Carter v Grenadier
Realty, 83 AD3d 640, 642 [2011]; cf. Izaguirre v New York City Tr.
Auth., 106 AD3d 878, 879 [2013]). Accordingly, the Supreme Court should
have denied those branches of the contractors' motion which were for summary judgment
dismissing the causes of action to recover damages for negligence insofar as asserted
against them.

The Supreme Court also erred in granting those branches of Ohel's motion which
were for summary judgment dismissing the causes of action to recover damages for
negligence insofar as asserted against it. Ohel, the owner of the unit where the work was
taking place, failed to establish that it did not owe a duty to the injured plaintiff (see
Backiel v Citibank, 299 AD2d 504, 505-506 [2002]). Inasmuch as Ohel failed to
establish its prima facie entitlement to judgment as a matter of law on the causes of
action to recover damages for negligence, those branches of its motion should have been
denied without regard to the sufficiency of the plaintiffs' papers submitted in opposition
(see Griffith v JK Chopra
Holding, LLC, 111 AD3d 666, 666-667 [2013]). Balkin, J.P., Chambers, Austin
and Roman, JJ., concur.


