
	MPL Music Publ., Inc. v ABKCO Music & Records,
Inc.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01374 [114 AD3d 598]
	February 27, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	MPL Music Publishing, Inc.,
Respondent-Appellant,
v
ABKCO Music & Records, Inc.,
Appellant-Respondent.


—[*1]


Michael B. Kramer & Associates, New York (Michael B. Kramer of counsel),
for appellant-respondent.

Guzov, LLC, New York (Gregory P. Vidler of counsel), for
respondent-appellant.



Order, Supreme Court, New York County (Milton A. Tingling, J.), entered July 3,
2013, which, to the extent appealed from, denied defendant's motion for partial summary
judgment declaring that its royalty obligation to plaintiff is limited to sales of 78 rpm and
45 rpm single records in the United States, granted plaintiff's cross motion for summary
judgment on its claim for breach of contract, and denied plaintiff's cross motion for
summary judgment dismissing defendant's counterclaim for attorney's fees, unanimously
reversed, on the law, without costs, defendant's motion granted to the extent of
dismissing the complaint, plaintiff's cross motion for summary judgment on its claim for
breach of contract denied, and plaintiff's cross motion for summary judgment dismissing
defendant's counterclaim for attorney's fees granted. The Clerk is directed to enter
judgment accordingly.

Under the unambiguous 1957 agreement between the parties' predecessors in
interest, plaintiff's predecessor transferred all of its rights to certain sound recordings
forever, without any limitation, including the right to release and exploit "records,"
produced from the recordings, throughout the world. In exchange, defendant's
predecessor agreed to pay royalties for such exploitation, but only "[f]or 78rpm and
45rpm single records sold and paid for in the Continental United States." Under those
terms, defendant is not obligated to pay royalties for exploitation of the master recordings
in any other format (see generally Greenfield v Philles Records, 98 NY2d 562
[2002]).
[*2]
Plaintiff's agreement to provide indemnification
to defendant for attorney's fees for any claims against defendant resulting from the
recording musicians' services is not applicable in this breach of contract action.
Concur—Mazzarelli, J.P., Friedman, DeGrasse, Richter and Manzanet-Daniels, JJ.


