
	Kristal R. v Nichter
	2014 NY Slip Op 01411 [115 AD3d 409]
	March 4, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, April 30, 2014






	Kristal R., an Infant, by Jesenia D., Her Mother and Natural
Guardian, et al., Respondents,
v
Charles Nichter, M.D., et al.,
Appellants.


—[*1]


Aaronson, Rappaport, Feinstein & Deutsch, LLP, New York (Elliott J. Zucker
of counsel), for Charles Nichter, M.D., Taiye Apoeso, M.D., Ram Kairam, M.D.,
Jayaraju Raju, M.D., Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center and Montefiore Medical Center,
appellants

Michael A. Cardozo, Corporation Counsel, New York (Susan Paulson of counsel),
for New York City Health and Hospital Corporation, appellant.

Scaffidi & Associates, New York (Anthony J. Scaffidi of counsel), for
respondents.



Order, Supreme Court, Bronx County (Douglas E. McKeon, J.), entered February 21,
2012, which, to the extent appealed from as limited by the briefs, denied the motions of
defendants New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation (Jacobi Hospital) and
Montefiore Medical Center (Montefiore) for summary judgment dismissing the
complaint, unanimously reversed, on the law, without costs, and the motion granted. The
Clerk is directed to enter judgment accordingly.

On May 17, 2001, the infant plaintiff, then five years old, suffered a generalized
tonic-clonic seizure and was admitted to Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center. On
admission, she was no longer actively seizing, but had a low grade fever and complained
of a headache. All diagnostic tests, including electroencephalography (EEG), lumbar
puncture, MRI and CT scan, were normal or negative. The attending pediatric
neurologist ruled out bacterial meningitis, brain infection, and mycoplasma pneumonia;
her assessment was "seizure associated with febrile illness most likely a complex febrile
seizure." Plaintiff was administered Ativan to control seizure activity, and intravenous
antibiotics, and returned to her baseline mental status. She was discharged on May 21,
2001, with a prescription for Diastat, which is used to treat immediate seizures but does
not prevent future seizures or a seizure disorder from progressing.[FN1]


On June 4, 2001, plaintiff experienced a generalized seizure and was taken by
ambulance to the emergency room at defendant Bronx Lebanon Hospital, where she
continued to seize. [*2]Ativan was administered, and
plaintiff returned to her baseline mental status. Bronx Lebanon did not repeat the EEG,
lumbar puncture, or CT scan performed by Lincoln. Plaintiff was discharged on June 5
with a working diagnosis of complex febrile seizure.[FN2]


On June 7, 2001, plaintiff experienced another seizure and was taken to defendant
Jacobi Hospital (Jacobi), where she continued to have intermittent focal and generalized
motor seizures. She was afebrile, but complained of headaches.

On admission, Ativan was prescribed to control the seizures and Acyclovir for
possible herpes simplex virus. Plaintiff was seizure-free overnight, with no reports of
significant abnormal behavior. However, between June 9 and 10, she experienced
multiple seizures and had episodes of abnormal behavior. Plaintiff was treated with
Tegretol, Phospenytoin and Ativan, and the seizures were suppressed. Differential
diagnoses of status epilepticus and viral encephalitis were considered.[FN3]

 On June 12, plaintiff experienced multiple seizures and abnormal behavior, and was
transferred to defendant Montefiore.

On June 13, the infant plaintiff was moved to Montefiore's epilepsy unit for video
EEG monitoring for evaluation of seizures and possible status epilepticus. After review
of the EEG monitoring, the attending pediatric neurologist's assessment was: "Abnormal
behavioral manifestations. Rule out frequent seizures status . . . encephalitis
. . . collagen vascular disease . . . parainfectious
disorder. . . . Continue Dilantin, Tegretol . . . to maximize
seizure management."

By June 18 the working diagnosis had changed to probable viral or parainfectious
encephalopathy. On June 19, plaintiff was transferred to pediatrics. She remained on
Tegretol and the anti-epileptic drug Dilantin to control her seizures, and was given a
10-day course of the antibiotic Cipro.

Plaintiff was discharged on July 3, 2001, on Tegretol. In the early morning hours of
July 5, 2001, she suffered another seizure and was returned to Montefiore, where she
remained overnight.

Plaintiffs allege that Jacobi and Montefiore departed from accepted medical practices
by failing to properly diagnose, treat and suppress the seizure disorder between June
2001 and mid-July 2001, which caused it to progress to status epilepticus and complex
partial status, leaving the infant plaintiff (plaintiff) neurologically impaired. Among other
things, plaintiffs allege that with status epilepticus documented as early as June 10, it was
a departure for Jacobi to wait two days to transfer plaintiff to Montefiore for continuous
video EEG monitoring, which was unavailable at Jacobi, and that Montefiore failed to
timely and appropriately administer antiseizure medications and antibiotics.

Jacobi and Montefiore made prima facie showings that they did not deviate from
accepted medical practices in treating the plaintiff's seizure disorder by submitting
plaintiff's medical [*3]records, deposition transcripts of
physicians who treated plaintiff, and affidavits by their medical experts (see Bacani v Rosenberg, 74
AD3d 500 [1st Dept 2010], lv denied 15 NY3d 708 [2010]; Gargiulo v Geiss, 40 AD3d
811 [2d Dept 2007]).

Jacobi performed numerous diagnostic tests, including several MRIs & EEGs,
multiple spinal taps, a CT scan, blood counts, blood and urine cultures, and cerebrospinal
fluid (CSF) cultures. It administered three antiseizure medications to plaintiff,
Phosphenytoin, Tegretol, and Ativan, and monitored their levels to ensure proper dosing.
Jacobi's expert opined that these tests were appropriate and that the dosage of the
anti-seizure medications was adjusted appropriately to ensure that the levels of
medication were within therapeutic guidelines and at sufficient levels to address
plaintiff's seizure activity. He also opined that no evidence supported a diagnosis of
nonconvulsive seizures at Jacobi, and that the failure to use video EEG monitoring was
not a deviation in 2001.

Montefiore prescribed Tegretol for the seizures, Dilantin and Fosphenytoin for
episodes of abnormal behavior, and Haldol for delirium. With respect to plaintiffs'
allegations that Montefiore failed to adequately control plaintiff's seizures, Montefiore's
expert opined that these medications were appropriate and that hospital staff
appropriately managed plaintiff's seizure activity. He further opined that the appropriate
workup was performed to determine the cause of the seizures, including blood tests, CSF
tests, EEG monitoring, a lumbar puncture, and a brain MRI, and that there were no
grounds for a claim of lack of informed consent, since a reasonable person would have
consented to the treatment.

Plaintiffs' expert's conclusory affirmation in opposition failed to raise factual issues
whether defendants departed from accepted medical practices and, if so, whether their
departures proximately contributed to the failure to timely diagnose and treat plaintiff's
seizure disorder and subsequent neurological injuries (see Alvarez v Prospect
Hosp., 68 NY2d 320 [1986]; Oestreich v Present, 50 AD3d 522 [1st Dept 2008]; Brown v Bauman, 42 AD3d
390 [1st Dept 2007]). The expert's conclusion that plaintiff's medication
levels at Jacobi and Montefiore were not properly adjusted was based on supposition and
hindsight. Among other things, the expert failed to explain why the levels of medication
prescribed were inappropriate given the clinical presentation at the time (see Matter of Joseph v City of New
York, 74 AD3d 440 [1st Dept 2010]).

Plaintiffs' expert opines that Jacobi failed to initiate an appropriate antiseizure
medication regimen based upon the "true diagnosis of nonconvulsive status epilepticus."
However, although plaintiff received a differential diagnosis of status epilepticus on June
10, 2001, it is not until June 12, 2001, that her chart notes "complex partial status" and
she was transferred to Montefiore that day. Plaintiffs' expert offered only conclusory
assertions that plaintiff was having nonconvulsive seizures that would have been
discovered earlier and would not have progressed to status epilepticus had Jacobi
provided continuous EEG monitoring or transferred plaintiff to Montefiore sooner. The
expert does not identify the actions Jacobi should have taken upon discovering the
existence of nonconvulsive seizures when it was already [*4]monitoring plaintiff's medication levels and investigating
the differential diagnosis of viral encephalitis (see Rodriguez v Montefiore Med. Ctr., 28 AD3d 357 [1st
Dept 2006]). Concur—Sweeny, J.P., Renwick, Andrias, Freedman and Feinman,
JJ.


Footnotes




Footnote 1: The action against New
York City Health and Hospitals Corporation with respect to Lincoln Medical and Mental
Health Center has been discontinued with prejudice.




Footnote 2: Because the claims
related to the diagnosis and treatment of encephalitis, mycoplasma pneumonia and
mycoplasma encephalitis were dismissed on reargument, Bronx Lebanon is not pursuing
its appeal.




Footnote 3: Status epilepticus is a
seizure that lasts more than 30 minutes, or multiple seizures over a 30-minute period of
time in which the patient does not return to the baseline mental status between seizures.




