
	People v James
	2014 NY Slip Op 01092 [114 AD3d 1312]
	February 14, 2014
	Appellate Division, Fourth Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	The People of the State of New York,
Respondent,
v
Elliott I. James, Also Known as Pig,
Appellant.


—[*1]


Carr Saglimben LLP, Olean (Jay D. Carr of counsel), for defendant-appellant.

Lori Pettit Rieman, District Attorney, Little Valley (Kelly M. Balcom of counsel), for
respondent.



Appeal from a resentence of the Cattaraugus County Court (Larry M. Himelein, J.),
rendered April 9, 2012. Defendant was resentenced upon his conviction of criminal
possession of a controlled substance in the third degree.

It is hereby ordered that the resentence so appealed from is unanimously vacated on
the law and the matter is remitted to Cattaraugus County Court for further proceedings in
accordance with the following.

Memorandum: Defendant appeals from a resentence imposed upon his conviction of
criminal possession of a controlled substance in the third degree (Penal Law §
220.16 [1]). On appeal, defendant contends that County Court erred in denying his
request to redact the presentence report to correct alleged inaccuracies therein, and in
failing to conduct a conference or summary hearing to address the alleged inaccuracies.
Specifically, defendant contends that the presentence report contained errors with respect
to his criminal history. In addition, he contends that the presentence report erroneously
included statements that he has a history of assault toward women and that he is at the
highest possible risk for violent recidivism, when in fact his criminal history does not
contain any convictions based on violent crimes. " 'If the investigation report contains
incorrect information, [defendant] should object at sentencing to the inclusion of the
erroneous information and move to strike it. . . . The court may conduct a
conference or a summary hearing to resolve discrepancies in sentencing information' "
(People v Boice, 6 Misc 3d 1014[A], 2004 NY Slip Op 51788[U], *4-5
[Chemung County Court 2004]). When defendant herein objected to the contents of the
presentence report and sought redaction, the court stated that it did not know the
procedure by which to correct the information. We thus conclude that defendant was not
properly afforded an opportunity to challenge the contents of the presentence report (cf. People v Thomas, 2 AD3d
982, 984 [2003], lv denied 1 NY3d 602 [2004]). We therefore vacate the
resentence and remit the matter to County Court for further proceedings in accordance
with our decision. Present—Smith, J.P., Fahey, Lindley, Sconiers and Whalen, JJ.


