
	People ex rel. Patten v Schriro
	2014 NY Slip Op 01204 [114 AD3d 886]
	February 19, 2014
	Appellate Division, Second Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	People of the State of New York ex rel. John D. Patten, on
Behalf of Ribhi Awawdeh, Petitioner,
v
Dora B. Schriro,
Respondent.


—[*1]


John D. Patten, New York, N.Y., petitioner pro se.

Eric T. Schneiderman, Attorney General, White Plains, N.Y. (Jonathan R. Sennett of
counsel), for respondent.


Writ of habeas corpus in the nature of an application for bail reduction
upon Kings


County indictment No. 3592/13.
Adjudged that the writ is sustained, without costs or disbursements, bail on Kings
County indictment No. 3592/13 is granted in the sum of $700,000, which may be posted
in the form of an insurance company bail bond in that sum or by depositing the sum of
$700,000 as a cash bail alternative, on condition that (1) the defendant shall surrender
any and all passports he may have to the Office of the Attorney General and is prohibited
from applying for any new or replacement passports; (2) the defendant shall wear an
electronic monitoring bracelet, with monitoring services to be provided by an entity
approved by the Office of the Attorney General and paid for by the defendant; (3) the
defendant shall be allowed to travel only within the State of New Jersey, and New York
County and Kings County, within the State of New York; (4) any violations of the
conditions set forth herein relating to the electronic monitoring of the defendant shall be
reported by the electronic monitoring service to the Office of the Attorney General; and
(5) the defendant shall provide to the Office of the Attorney General, in a form approved
by the Office of the Attorney General, an affidavit in which he agrees that if he leaves the
State of New York and fails to return, he waives his right to oppose extradition; and it is
further,

Ordered that upon receipt of a copy of this decision, order and judgment together
with proof that the defendant has (1) given an insurance company bail bond in the
amount of $700,000 or has deposited the sum of $700,000 as a cash bail alternative, (2)
surrendered any and all passports to the Office of the Attorney General, (3) arranged for
electronic monitoring with an entity approved by the Office of the Attorney General, (4)
provided the Office of the Attorney General with an affidavit waiving his right to oppose
extradition, the Warden of the facility at which the defendant is incarcerated, or his or her
agent, is directed to immediately release the defendant. Balkin, J.P., Sgroi, Cohen and
LaSalle, JJ., concur.




