
	Matter of Luka OO. (Travis PP.)
	2014 NY Slip Op 01227 [114 AD3d 1056]
	February 20, 2014
	Appellate Division, Third Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In the Matter of Luka OO. and Others, Children Alleged to
Be Neglected. Clinton County Department of Social Services, Respondent; Travis PP.,
Appellant.


—[*1]


Jessica C. Eggleston, Saratoga Springs, for appellant.

Omshanti Parnes, Plattsburgh, attorney for the children.



McCarthy, J.P. Appeal from an order of the Family Court of Clinton County
(Lawliss, J.), entered December 24, 2012, which granted petitioner's application, in a
proceeding pursuant to Family Ct Act article 10, to adjudicate the subject children to be
neglected.

Respondent and his wife were responsible for the care of three children, Luka OO.
(born in 2007), Logan PP. (born in 2010) and Taylor QQ. (born in 1996).[FN1]

Petitioner commenced this proceeding alleging that respondent neglected the children by
exposing them to incidents of domestic violence that included screaming, loud
obscenities and physical violence. A similar proceeding was commenced against his
wife. Family Court issued temporary orders of protection that, while allowing the
children to remain in the custody of either respondent or his wife, prohibited either adult
from being in the presence of the children while the other adult was also present. To
comply with these orders, respondent moved into a relative's home and watched Luka
and Logan every other day, while his wife remained in the marital home [*2]and watched those two children on the alternating
days.[FN2]


Respondent and his wife admitted to the allegations in the petitions, resulting in
Family Court adjudicating that they neglected the three children. Despite it being agreed
to by all parties, the court did not accept the proposed disposition, which would have
extended the orders of protection and required that respondent and his wife engage in
certain services. Following a dispositional hearing, the court released the children to the
custody of respondent's wife, with supervision by petitioner, required respondent and his
wife to comply with certain services and continued the orders of protection for one year.
Respondent appeals.

Respondent mainly argues that Family Court should have allowed him and his wife
to have some supervised time together with the children. The orders of protection
essentially prevented respondent from reuniting with his wife because she had custody of
the children and he could not be in her presence when the children were also present. We
need not address any order of protection against respondent, however, because it expired
on December 20, 2013 and its prohibitions are now lifted, rendering the related
arguments moot.

The dispositional order is problematic in that it released the children into the custody
of respondent's wife but did not provide for any contact between respondent and the
children. As visitation with a noncustodial parent is presumed to be in a child's best
interests and should only be denied in exceptional situations (see Matter of Marshall v
Bradley, 59 AD3d 870, 871 [2009]; Matter of Frierson v Goldston, 9 AD3d 612, 614 [2004]),
we remit for Family Court to include a schedule or other provision for parenting time
with respondent.

Garry, Rose and Egan Jr., JJ., concur. Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law
and the facts, without costs, and matter remitted to the Family Court of Clinton County
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this Court's decision.


Footnotes




Footnote 1: Logan is respondent's
biological child, Luka is his stepson, and Taylor is his wife's younger sister.




Footnote 2: In a separate custody
proceeding, Family Court placed Taylor with her biological father shortly before the
commencement of this proceeding.




