
	Matter of State of New York v Adrien S.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01175 [114 AD3d 862]
	February 19, 2014
	Appellate Division, Second Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, March 26, 2014






	In the Matter of State of New York,
Respondent,
v
Adrien S., Appellant.


—[*1]


Mental Hygiene Legal Service, Mineola, N.Y. (Lesley DeLia, Dennis B. Feld,
and Timothy M. Riselvato of counsel), for appellant.

Eric T. Schneiderman, Attorney General, New York, N.Y. (Steven C. Wu, Patrick J.
Walsh, and Judith Vale of counsel), for respondent.



In a proceeding pursuant to Mental Hygiene Law article 10, Adrien S., an alleged sex
offender requiring civil management, appeals from an order of the Supreme Court,
Nassau County (Calabrese, J.), entered July 11, 2012, which, upon a finding, made after
a jury trial, that he suffers from a mental abnormality as defined in Mental Hygiene Law
§ 10.03 (i), and upon a determination, made after a dispositional hearing, that he
currently is a dangerous sex offender requiring civil confinement, in effect, granted the
petition and directed that he be committed to a secure treatment facility for care,
treatment, and control until such time as he no longer requires confinement.

Ordered that the order is reversed, on the law and the facts, without costs or
disbursements, the finding of mental abnormality is set aside, and the matter is remitted
to the Supreme Court, Nassau County, for a new trial on the issue of mental abnormality,
and, if necessary, a new dispositional hearing.

In 2002, the appellant was convicted, upon his plea of guilty, of burglary in the
second degree, based upon an incident in which, in addition to unlawfully breaking into a
woman's home and stealing a knife, he also allegedly rubbed or touched that woman's
vagina and buttocks with a hard object. In September 2008, the State commenced this
proceeding under article 10 of the Mental Hygiene Law, alleging that the appellant was a
sex offender requiring civil management. The Supreme Court subsequently conducted a
jury trial on the issues of whether the acts constituting burglary in the second degree, a
designated felony pursuant to Mental Hygiene Law § 10.03 (f), were sexually
motivated and whether the appellant suffers from a mental abnormality (see
Mental Hygiene Law § 10.03 [i]). The jury unanimously found that the
commission of the designated felony was sexually motivated and that the appellant
suffers from a mental abnormality. On appeal, the appellant contends, inter alia, that the
Supreme Court committed reversible error by failing to provide, upon his counsel's
request, further instruction on the meaning of the term "sex offense" as part of the jury
charge on mental abnormality.

In the trial phase of a Mental Hygiene Law article 10 proceeding, the jury is required
to make a finding of whether the subject of the proceeding suffers from a "mental
abnormality." "Mental abnormality" is defined as:[*2]"a
congenital or acquired condition, disease or disorder that affects the emotional, cognitive,
or volitional capacity of a person in a manner that predisposes him or her to the
commission of conduct constituting a sex offense and that results in that person having
serious difficulty in controlling such conduct" (Mental Hygiene Law § 10.03 [i]).
The term "sex offense," as set forth in the definition of the term "mental abnormality," is
also a specifically defined term under Mental Hygiene Law article 10. In this regard, the
definition of "sex offense" is limited to an act or acts constituting any felony defined in
Penal Law article 130 (crimes involving rape, and nonconsensual oral and anal sexual
contact against children and adults), patronizing a prostitute in the first degree (Penal
Law § 230.06), incest in the first and second degrees (Penal Law §§
255.27, 255.26), a felony attempt or conspiracy to commit any of the foregoing offenses,
or a sexually motivated designated felony committed prior to April 13, 2007 (see
Mental Hygiene Law § 10.03 [p]). Significantly, the term "sex offense," as
employed in the statute, does not have a common or colloquial meaning, and does not
encompass all sexually illegal misconduct. Rather, "it is an explicitly defined term which
relates to the specific offenses listed in the definition and no other offenses" (Matter of State of New York v
P.H., 22 Misc 3d 689, 706 [Sup Ct, NY County 2008]). Consequently, the
finder of fact is required, inter alia, to determine whether the subject of the proceeding
has a condition, disease, or disorder that predisposes him or her to commit conduct that
would constitute a "sex offense" as defined under Mental Hygiene Law article 10.

Although the Pattern Jury Instructions (see PJI 8:8) omit the statutory
definition of "sex offense" from the instructions with respect to the term "mental
abnormality," the PJI advises: "there may be cases in which the evidence of the
[subject's] predisposition to commit sex offenses includes examples of sexual misconduct
not rising to the level of the felonies enumerated in § 10.03 (p) (e.g., third-degree
incest, see Penal Law § 130.25 [sic], or forcible touching, see id § 130.52).
While such evidence may be relevant, it also may create a risk that the jury will infer,
mistakenly, that the [subject of the proceeding] has a 'mental abnormality' solely because
[he or she] has a condition that creates a predisposition to engage in the non-enumerated
sexual misconduct. Where such a risk exists, the court should make clear that a finding of
'mental abnormality' can be made only if the evidence establishes that the [subject of the
proceeding] has a condition that predisposes him or her to commit one or more of the
serious 'sex offenses' delineated in § 10.03 (p)" (NY PJI 8:8, Comment, Caveat 3).

Here, the State's evidence consisted predominantly of instances of the appellant's
sexually inappropriate acts that would not constitute sex offenses under Mental Hygiene
Law article 10. Specifically, the State's expert testified at length regarding instances in
which the appellant masturbated while he could be observed by prison officers or by staff
members while placed at a secure treatment facility, and his propensity to continue to act
in a sexually improper manner. The appellant's conduct, however, at most, might
constitute the crime of public lewdness (Penal Law § 245.00), a class B
misdemeanor, which is not one of the sex offenses enumerated under Mental Hygiene
Law article 10. In light of the particular circumstances presented in this proceeding, the
Supreme Court should have granted the appellant's request to issue an expanded charge
to the jury containing supplemental information as to the specific statutory meaning of
"sex offense," so that the jury could make a proper evaluation of the evidence.

Contrary to the State's contention, the omission from the charge was not harmless. In
this regard, the jury note sent to the Supreme Court during deliberations indicates a
certain level of confusion (see
generally People v Medina, 18 NY3d 98, 105-106 [2011]). Moreover, the
Supreme Court's failure to either provide the statutory definition of "sex offense" under
Mental Hygiene Law [*3]article 10 or to inform the jury
that there is a distinction between a predisposition to commit a "sex offense" and a
predisposition to commit nonenumerated acts of sexual misconduct could have misled
the jury into making a finding of mental abnormality, based solely upon the evidence of
the appellant's predisposition to commit any improper sexual conduct. Consequently, a
new trial is required (see generally People v Blacknall, 63 NY2d 912, 913
[1984]; Spells v Foley, 84 AD2d 786, 786-787 [1981]).

Contrary to the appellant's contention, he was not entitled to a jury instruction that no
adverse inference could be drawn from the fact that he did not testify (see CPL
300.10 [2]), as Mental Hygiene Law article 10 proceedings are of a civil rather than a
criminal nature (see People v
Harnett, 16 NY3d 200, 206 [2011]; Matter of State of New York v Campany, 77 AD3d 92, 98
[2010]).

In light of our determination, we need not address the appellant's remaining
contentions. Dillon, J.P., Balkin, Chambers and Cohen, JJ., concur.


