
	Matter of Jose P.
	2014 NY Slip Op 01419 [115 AD3d 420]
	March 4, 2014
	Appellate Division, First Department
	Published by New York State Law Reporting
Bureau pursuant to Judiciary Law § 431.
	As corrected through Wednesday, April 30, 2014






	In the Matter of Jose P., a Person Alleged to be a Juvenile
Delinquent, Appellant.


—[*1]


Tamara A. Steckler, The Legal Aid Society, New York (Raymond E. Rogers of
counsel), for appellant.

Jeffrey D. Friedlander, Acting Corporation Counsel, New York (Deborah A. Brenner
of counsel), for presentment agency.



Order of disposition, Family Court, Bronx County (Sidney Gribetz, J.), entered on or
about January 28, 2013, which adjudicated appellant a juvenile delinquent upon a
fact-finding determination that he committed acts that, if committed by an adult, would
constitute attempted criminal sexual act in the first and third degrees, attempted sexual
abuse in the first degree, sexual abuse in the third degree, and forcible touching, and
placed him on probation for a period of 12 months, unanimously modified, on the law, to
the extent of vacating the findings as to attempted criminal sexual act in the third degree
and attempted sexual abuse in the first degree and dismissing those particular counts of
the petition, and otherwise affirmed, without costs.

The court's finding was based on legally sufficient evidence and was not against the
weight of the evidence (see
People v Danielson, 9 NY3d 342, 348-349 [2007]). There is no basis for
disturbing the court's credibility determinations. The counts indicated should have been
dismissed as lesser included offenses. We have considered and rejected appellant's
remaining claims regarding the fact-finding determination.

Probation was the least restrictive dispositional alternative consistent with appellant's
needs and the community's need for protection (see Matter of Katherine W., 62
NY2d 947 [1984]). Among other things, the underlying incident was a violent sexual
attack, the record demonstrated that appellant was in need of a treatment program that
could not be completed [*2]within the six-month duration
of an adjournment in contemplation of dismissal, and there was little or no indication that
appellant and his mother would voluntarily cooperate with treatment in the absence of
court supervision. Concur—Tom, J.P., Friedman, Acosta, Andrias and Richter, JJ.


